Sino-African talks lead to closer ties - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Seminar affirms the effort to build a community of common destiny 
A statement was adopted to further promote multilateral communication among Chinese and African political parties at the closing ceremony of the 3rd China-Africa Political Parties Theoretical Seminar in Beijing on Friday. 
Over 60 representatives of political parties from some 20 African countries attended the seminar, which started on Wednesday in conjunction with the CPC in Dialogue with World Political Parties High-Level Meeting, which runs through Sunday. 
The parties also agreed to provide a Sino-African plan to build a new type of international relations based on mutual respect, fairness and justice, and win-win cooperation, and to contribute to building a community of common destiny with Sino-African wisdom through multilateral exchange. 
Party representatives spoke highly of the rapid development of cooperation between China and Africa. They also said China and Africa are a united community of common destiny since they have common historical experiences, development tasks and strategic interests. 
"We deeply believe in the concept of the community of shared destiny proposed by China," said Mamadou Ballo, secretary of People's Assembly of Guinea. "Attending this meeting indicates our determination to build such a community with other countries." 
As the source of their countries' policies, the parties should further strengthen exchanges and cooperation to play a more significant role in building the community of common destiny in Africa, the representatives said. 
They affirmed the seminar's role in promoting collective dialogue, exchanges and learning among parties. They also said they believe that it further deepens the mutual understanding of political parties between China and Africa. 
Solomon Lechesa Tsenoli, central committee member of the South African Communist Party and deputy speaker of the National Assembly, said that he and his party need to learn from the Communist Party of China on how to build a program for a developing country. 
Representatives exchanged information on the recent economic and social development of their countries, and introduced the ideas, policies and measures of their political parties in promoting development and improving people's livelihood. They said they believed that the ruling parties of China and Africa still face challenges along with the significant achievements in governance. Parties also should continuously improve their own governance capability to achieve the goal of rapid economic and social development. 
Xu Lyuping, deputy head of the International Department of the CPC Central Committee, said the CPC is willing to maintain close relations with African political parties to promote advancement in Sino-African relations and also to jointly create a better future. 
liuxuan@chinadaily.com.cn 
