VP: Egypt ties should be bolstered - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
CAIRO - During a two-day visit over the weekend, Vice-President Wang Qishan agreed with Egyptian leaders that the two countries should further boost cooperation.
Egyptian Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly received Wang at Cairo International Airport with a welcoming ceremony.
Wang made the visit at the invitation of Madbouly and also met with President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.
In his meeting with Sisi, Wang said that China and Egypt, both ancient civilizations, share extensive interests and great cooperation potential. He said that China is ready to enhance mutual understanding, coordinate development strategies and strengthen cooperation with Egypt in the fields of economy and trade, production capacity and cultural exchanges within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative.
China is willing to encourage more Chinese companies to invest in Egypt and continue to encourage Chinese tourists to travel to Egypt, Wang said.
The vice-president said that China is willing to work together with Egypt to safeguard regional peace and stability.
Sisi said that Egypt and China have enjoyed close ties and deep cooperation. He expressed admiration for China's achievements and said Egypt is keen to boost government-level exchanges with China in addition to enhancing dialogue between the two peoples.
Egypt takes it as a priority in its diplomatic affairs to further develop the comprehensive strategic partnership between Egypt and China, begun in 2014, and is willing to coordinate Egypt's dream of national rejuvenation with the Chinese Dream and seek joint development, said Sisi.
Egypt was one of the first countries to support the Belt and Road Initiative proposed by China as it believes the initiative will inject fresh vigor into bilateral cooperation, he said.
The Egyptian president said his country is willing to explore possible cooperation involving Egypt, China and other parties in Africa as it assumes the rotating presidency of the African Union in 2019.
In the meeting with Madbouly, Wang said Egypt was one of the first countries in the Middle East and Africa to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, and that bilateral relations have progressed steadily for over 60 years.
China attaches great importance to the Suez Canal Corridor Development Project proposed by Sisi, and is willing to boost cooperation with Egypt in this regard, Wang said.
China adheres to its strategy of reform and opening-up, and the first China International Import Expo in Shanghai next month is one measure to expand the country's efforts in line with this strategy, Wang said.
Egypt can make full use of this opportunity by expanding its quality exports to China, Wang said, calling for joint efforts to implement the important consensus achieved by the leaders of the two countries and further boost bilateral cooperation.
Madbouly hailed the growth of bilateral cooperation since the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership, saying that it has brought substantial benefits to the people of both countries.
Egypt thinks highly of and actively participates in the Belt and Road Initiative and is willing to boost efforts to coordinate the development strategies of the two sides and increase pragmatic cooperation, the Egyptian prime minister said.
Egypt would like to tap the development experience of China and welcomes Chinese enterprises to participate in Egypt's development, he said.
Madbouly also thanked China for inviting Egypt to participate in the first CIIE as a guest of honor. Egypt will seize the opportunity to facilitate bilateral economic and trade cooperation and try to achieve substantial results, he said.
