Journalists voice hopes for summit - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
China-Africa cooperation has entered a new era in the fast lane, according to African journalists participating in the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation.
More than 2,600 journalists from China and abroad have registered for the two-day summit, with more than 660 from overseas.
Tarek Eltaweel, a journalist from Middle East News Agency in Egypt, said the summit represents a new beginning for China-Africa relations in the new era, bringing in fresh thoughts and methods to connect the Belt and Road Initiative with the development plans of African countries.
The cooperation between China and Africa has been advancing rapidly in recent years because it is based on mutual benefit, mutual trust and respect for the internal affairs of other countries, he said.
"African countries highly appreciate China's role in helping the continent to develop, and we can expect bilateral trade and economic relations to boom in the future," he said.
China and Africa have a long history of cooperation, and it's exciting to see Africa making "incredible developments" with China, he said, adding that with new opportunities brought by the BRI, China-Africa relations have entered a new phase.
Machano Leonel Jose, a journalist from Mozambique News Agency, said the two-day summit demonstrates that China attaches great importance to Africa's development and will make a substantial contribution to the friendship.
Africa has received help from many countries, but its relationship with China is key, as it has unleashed explosive growth in the region, he said.
China has been investing significantly in Mozambique's infrastructure, agricultural modernization and health sector, he said.
Because a large number of African students attend Chinese universities, he said, China might be able to offer more targeted training so that students will be qualified to tackle the problems the continent faces.
Moco Mamoude, a journalist from Mauritius Broadcasting Corp, said the two sides should strengthen cultural, educational, medical and people-to-people exchanges, which are crucial to boosting mutual understanding and friendship.
China's development experience is relevant to Africa, he said, adding that having been at a similar development point in history gives a lot of developing and emerging economies in Africa hope for transformation and innovation.
