China extends a helping hand to Malawi flood victims - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The strong bond between the governments of China and Malawi is evident in the hour of need as the African country grapples with devastating floods that killed 56 people, injured 577 and left thousands homeless.
In response to the tragedy, Department of Disaster Management Affairs (DoDMA) said that Chinese nationals living in the land-locked country have mobilized to contribute cash to help Malawi government buy relief items.
To lead by example, the Chinese embassy in Malawi has, on behalf of Chinese Red Cross, donated $50,000 (K36 million) to help the Southern African country deal with the devastation, which Malawi President Peter Mutharika has declared as a national disaster.
Chinese Charge d'Affairs in Malawi Wang Xiusheng presented the check to the Malawi Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Malawi's capital Lilongwe on Wednesday.
Wang said China, as Malawi's bilateral partner, is concerned about the flooding, which has occured in most southern region districts, especially Chikwawa and Nsanje, which border Mozambique.
He said Chinese nationals doing business in the former British colony will also contribute $41,000 toward the flood victims.
"Let me assure Malawi government that Chinese government will continue to help flood victims with about 2,000 bags of rice, which have already arrived in Malawi," Wang told the press.
Ben Botolo, principal secretary in Malawi's foreign affairs ministry, has hailed China for coming to the rescue of Malawi, its diplomatic partner for over 10 years now.
"The Malawi government appreciates the response from the development partners such as China and all well-wishers," Botolo said.
Strong winds coming from deep low pressure area in neighbouring Mozambique located 370.9 kilometres from Malawi plus flooding of some rivers led to the deaths of the people in some 13 southern region districts of Malawi, according to DoDMA.
"A total of 147,958 households (about 739,790 people) have been affected and 15,185 households have been displaced. Most of the displaced families are living in camps and their relations' houses. So far, a total of 187 camps have been established in the affected districts," DoDMA's statement said.
Search and rescue teams by the army and police have been deployed with the death toll expected to rise as the rains continue. South Africa government has also sent a team to beef up Malawi rescue mission.
Malawi's Department of Climate Change and Meteorological Services attributed the floods to "the atmospheric pressure value of 1001 milibars" which had intensified due to presence of the inter-tropical convergence zone oscillating over southern Malawi."
Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee estimates that 3.3 million people in Malawi face hunger due to floods.
Food and Agriculture Organisation has since warned that the floods would lead to food shortage in Malawi.
The government has committed 138 metric tonnes of relief maize, which has so far been distributed to 2,826,020 people, according to the disaster department. The worst floods in Malawi claimed over 200 people in 2015.
