Chinese companies support COVID-19 fight in Kenya - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Chinese construction companies operating in Kenya have been in the forefront in supporting the fight against coronavirus that has so far infected 830 and killed 50 in the country.
Africa Star Railway Operation Company, a subsidiary of China Road and Bridge Corporation and which is responsible for operations of Kenya's Standard Gauge Railway passenger and freight services, has not only observed the imposed measures to curb spread of the disease but has also ensured efficient transportation of the needed medical supplies.
Aside from transporting the normal cargo, the company increased the transportation of bulk grain, epidemic prevention materials and other life necessities.
Some 58 twenty-foot equivalent units or TEUs of epidemic prevention materials and 824 TEUs of bulk grain were transported through the Standard Gauge Railway, contributing greatly to the economic development and epidemic prevention in Kenya.
Olivia Mengich, the spokesperson of the Africa Star Railway Operation Company, said since the coronavirus outbreak, they have strictly complied with and responded to the national curfew policy and the cessation of movement directives for several counties.
"Each cargo train is equipped with an additional coach for isolation and anti-epidemic materials such as hand sanitizers, gun-thermometers, protective gloves, masks, protective clothing and goggles among others," Mengich said.
She said once a passenger has fever or suspected to be infected, they guide them to the isolation coach, and cooperate with the ministry of health.
"The company strives to achieve the goal of "zero infection" by distributing protective equipment to employees, organizing training, and disinfecting living quarters and work places," Mengich said.
She said they have overcome various difficulties such as fewer personnel, greater epidemic prevention pressure and threat of confirmed cases by the cooperating partners, in order to comply with the government's directives and meet the requirements of the cargo owners.
"Adhering to the principle of guaranteeing transportation efficiency and quality, we adopted many measures, including adjusting personnel organization and changing shift system," Mengich said.
They also increased workloads of all the on duty staff, sending managerial staff to work on the front line and organizing overtime inspection and maintenance of equipment, to ensure the successful epidemic prevention, transportation and production safety, thus achieving a good social impact and economic benefits.
