Railway firm pays school fees for Kenyans saved from early marriage - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Africa Star Railway Operation Company (Afristar), a Chinese company that operates the Kenyan Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), has sponsored three students at Suswa Girls Secondary School by paying for their entire secondary school education.
Jane Soila Mutarin, Lilian Serata Salaash and Terian Beyanca Sayagie, who were recipients of the second Afristar Secondary School Scholarship, sat their primary level exams last year and were at risk of being married off since their parents could not raise the money required to advance their education.
"I never knew I would join secondary school. I was forced to repeat standard six and seven and at some point, my father told my mother that there was no need for me to go to school and it was better to marry me off so they get a dowry in return," Salaash said.
The girls come from Narok county where the Maasai community is faced with localized challenges such as early marriages and minimal access to education.
According to He Fuhan, the deputy general manager of Afristar, the company is committed to poverty alleviation and promoting education that targets marginalized and poor populations to help break the cycle of poverty.
"This scholarship reflects our commitment to impact the lives of those struggling with financial constraints within our society," He said.
While welcoming the initiative, Alice Esho who is the school's principal, said a unique element of Suswa Girls Secondary School is its efforts supporting young girls in the community who face gender-based challenges.
"I am very grateful to Afristar for considering this school for their scholarship program. We look forward to further collaborating with the company to improve the learning environment of the school," Esho said.
Afristar's contribution of $6,000 will cover the full school fees required for the three students' secondary school education. The company also donated personal care items ranging from suitcases to school shoes in addition to providing tables and chairs for the school's dining hall.
While addressing the students, Sammy Gachuhi, the local deputy general manager of Afristar, noted that education has increased the SGR operations localization rate and the company wished to extend the benefits of education through corporate social responsibility.
"Education has enabled our employees to advance in their careers and we want to extend educational opportunities to young Kenyans transitioning from primary to secondary school. One of the pillars of Afristar is education and wherever the SGR passes, we have initiated life-touching programs. This scholarship is focusing on giving a lease of life to children from poor backgrounds to access education," Gachuhi said.
<em>Otiato Opali in Nairobi, Kenya contributed to this story.</em>
