Investing for a brighter tomorrow: Unlocking Guinea's golden potential - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The mineral-rich West African country Guinea's connection with the world's financial system stretches as far back as the 17th century, when bullion mined from the region was used to mint the first machine-struck quarter ounce gold coins in Great Britain which were called "guineas".
Today it still possesses significant gold, diamond, bauxite and iron ore reserves - as well as abundant hydropower and agricultural resources.
Under the leadership of the present head of state, President Alpha Conde, who analysts say is committed to progress and change, the country is aiming to mobilize its abundance of natural resources to drive the country's economy forward.
Guinea has put in place a masterplan to focus on the construction of infrastructure and needed development activities, which is using the mining sector to support the republic in taking its next big steps.
Analysts say it aims to do so with the promotion of governance, economic transformation, development of human capital, the preservation of the environment and with sustainable development.
Investment bank Banque de Developpement de Guinee is a key partner in this venture, working with the country's administration and international financiers as a central, trusted presence in assessing, processing and delivering financial advisory services to help take projects from blueprint to the construction phase.
The only investment bank in Guinea, BDG is committed to adopting the strictest international standards and best practice, emphasizing transparency, governance, internal controls and corporate social responsibility.
It is striving hard to be accredited to the World Bank, the IFC, African Development Bank and other NGOs - like the Green Climate Fund - to be partners in financing and to gain grants for projects in Guinea.
Managing Director David Ng had 35 years banking experience in Hong Kong, including in JP Morgan Chase and Bank of East Asia, before taking up leadership of BDG in February 2017.
"We see tremendous investment banking opportunities here and a lot of Chinese interest in taking part in Guinean projects, after the signing of the $20 billion master loan agreement between China and Guinea in Sept 2017," he said.
"Our bank was named by presidential decree in early 2018, as the only nongovernment member in the operating committee responsible for reviewing Guinean projects with Chinese investment," Ng added.
"The first few years after our formation in 2013 were mostly spent on getting vital information on the priority projects for Guinea, building trust and a working relationship with the ministries and bringing in the right talent."
He said the bank's Deputy MD, Fatoumata Toure, a returning Guinean who enjoyed a successful banking career in the US, was crucial to BDG's formula for success.
Toure was recently named vice-president of the Guinean Professional Bankers' Association.
BDG is close to completing its first green project - a solar energy plant - after having brought in a Chinese partner to establish further solar development in the country.
"We believe BDG has built a strong momentum and is ready to accept the challenge to help Guinea to attract interested and professional investors," he said.
"Our ultimate goal is to find long term, strategic investors whose goals are in line with the national interest of the country and its people."
