Belt, Road aligns with African nations - Chinadaily.com.cn
China and Africa will align the Belt and Road Initiative with the development strategies of African nations to bring more opportunities for the growth and prosperity of the continent, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday.
Xi made the remark while presiding over the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation held at the Great Hall of the People.
The roundtable meeting of the two-day summit, attended by leaders from 53 African nations, was co-chaired by Xi and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa.
During the meeting, the countries adopted a declaration on building a China-Africa community with a shared future and an action plan for the next three years.
Leaders exchanged views on such issues as promoting China-Africa relations, deepening cooperation in all areas, building a China-Africa community with a shared future and jointly building the Belt and Road as well as global and regional issues of concern to all sides.
Xi pointed out that over the past two days, the summit has focused on the theme of win-win cooperation and joining hands to build the shared community, reaching consensus on cooperation, aligning development strategies and advocating for China-Africa common development.
Nations at the summit agreed to build the community featuring joint responsibility, win-win cooperation, shared happiness, cultural prosperity, common security, and harmony between man and nature, Xi said.
The outcome documents adopted at the summit have set the direction for developing China-Africa ties, Xi said.
The countries agreed to build FOCAC into a brand for China-Africa cooperation and a flagship example of international cooperation with Africa under the principle of achieving shared growth through discussions and collaboration, Xi said.
China and African countries at the summit resolved to enhance coordination and communication, firmly safeguard the open global economy and multilateral trading system, oppose trade protectionism and unilateralism, and jointly safeguard the core interests of developing nations, he added.
Noting that there is great potential for China-Africa cooperation, Xi said that China would like to make joint efforts with African countries to deepen political mutual trust, promote common development and allow the cooperation outcomes to benefit more of the people of China and Africa.
Xi pointed out that thriving China-Africa cooperation has not only promoted the progress of Africa and boosted the confidence of the continent’s people, but also prompted international partners to attach greater importance to Africa and increase investment on the continent.
Leaders from African countries spoke highly of the FOCAC Beijing Summit, saying it sends a strong signal of friendly Africa-China coordination.
They said that the summit is pragmatic, efficient and fruitful, and opens a new chapter for Africa-China cooperation.
The African leaders said that China has always listened to opinions from the continent and understands and supports it. China never interferes in the internal affairs of African nations and offers a hand in their development, they said.
They expressed gratitude for China’s upholding of justice in global affairs and its safeguarding of the interests of developing nations.
