Nigerian president sends New Year's greetings to the Chinese people - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has sent warm greetings to President Xi Jinping and all Chinese people, Buhari's special adviser Femi Adesina said on Tuesday.
Through his official social media account, Adesina said President Buhari recounts the strides being taken in Nigeria-China relations in a formal letter to his Chinese counterpart, saying "we have new opportunities for mutual benefit".
Adesina also attached the full text of the letter:
"As celebrations of the Chinese Year of the Rat by the Chinese community in Nigeria and across the world commence on Jan 25 this year, on behalf of the government and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I extend my warmest and most sincere greetings and wishes to you and the Chinese people for a promising and auspicious Lunar New Year.
"In the past year, the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China was warmly celebrated. The tremendous achievements made by the Chinese people fully demonstrate China has found the successful development path that fits its national reality.
"The past year has also been a productive one for China-Nigeria relations. The all-round, wide-ranging and high-quality bilateral cooperation between Nigeria and China has been further intensified, and our belief in the one-China policy re-affirmed. There is a new impetus in Nigeria-China relations and we have new opportunities for mutual benefits.
"I note 2020 marks the year China will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and the final year of the 13th Five-Year Plan. We are delighted China is making positive progress and setting a good example for developing countries to pursue their own development goals.
"This year is also the 20th anniversary of Forum for China-Africa Cooperation. We are delighted to see FOCAC has become an effective platform between Nigeria and China and achieved major progress of boosting concrete trade and cooperation and benefiting people of both countries.
"I understand the rat is the first sign in the cycle of Chinese Astrology, making 2020 a year of new beginnings and renewals. I would like to take this as a catalyst to work with China hand-in-hand to develop the Belt and Road Initiative, further implement the outcomes of the FOCAC Beijing Summit and promote the Nigeria-China strategic partnership to a new level.
"While wishing the Year of the Rat witnesses the common development of our two countries and a better life for our peoples, please accept, Your Excellency, the assurances of my highest esteem and personal regards.
"Once again, Happy New Year!"
