Big Chinese exhibition opens for 4th time in Nairobi - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The fourth China Trade Week exhibition, billed as bigger and better, officially opened Wednesday at the Kenyatta International Convention Center in Nairobi.
This year's event has been split into two phases to accommodate the burgeoning number of Chinese exhibitors and local entrepreneurs eager to build trade connections. A total of 550 Chinese exhibitors are showcasing their products, an increase from 450 in 2017. At least 16,500 visitors are expected to attend the six-day event.
Adan Mohamed, the cabinet secretary of industry, commended the organizers of the event, saying that the increase of Chinese exhibitors this year is an indication of a rising awareness among Chinese entrepreneurs of the opportunities available in the east African region through Nairobi.
However, he emphasized the need to whet investors' appetites to establish a presence in the nascent local manufacturing sector, saying that it will improve access to the bigger continental market in addition to taking advantage of trade agreements between Kenya and the Western nations.
"We are working on the necessary policy instruments to make the investment environment more profitable as opposed to importing the finished goods from elsewhere," said the minister.
He noted that the move will also be beneficial to Kenya as it will create employment opportunities.
James Mureu, the national vice-chair of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that the exhibition has created a platform that is likely to break down cultural barriers and increase people-to-people exchanges quickly.
"Today we have witnessed several agreements being signed with Amanbo.com, a Chinese owned e-commerce retail and wholesale company, committing to launching a platform in China that would increase access of Kenyan products to Chinese consumers. These are indeed exciting times."
He however urged Kenyan manufacturers to improve product quality to enable them to compete aggressively on the global stage while piggybacking on opportunities offered by China.
David Wang, the managing director of MIE Events, the exhibition organizer, said that successful hosting of the event in Kenya is an indication of growing interest by Chinese manufacturers in the market. "It is just a matter of time before they invest here," he said.
During June 13-15, the first phase of China trade week, the event will feature exhibits covering sectors including building material, HVAC, lighting, construction material, water and environmental treatment, furniture and interior, and textiles. This will be followed by three days of consumer goods, automotives and auto parts, electrical and information technology, and agriculture.
