China pledges to strengthen South-South cooperation on climate change - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
China's environmental authorities have pledged to further strengthen South-South cooperation to help the endeavors of other developing nations adapt to climate change.
With 39 collaboration agreements on climate change with 35 developing countries, China has so far allocated 1.2 billion yuan ($185 million) for South-South cooperation on tackling the global crisis, said Huang Runqiu, minister of Ecology and Environment, addressing the First GCA Ministerial Dialogue via a video link on Monday. Held by the Global Center on Adaptation, the dialogue aims for sustained global leadership cooperation to accelerate adaptation at speed and at scale.
Climate adaptation is an urgent need for developing economies, especially African nations, island states and the least-developed countries.
"As one of the countries most adversely affected by climate change, China can empathize with other developing countries' sufferings and has always proactively provided its support to the best of its ability," Huang said.
As a highlight of South-South cooperation, China has donated a satellite, as well as its application system, and also provided training sessions on the spacecraft's operation, he said.
"China will continue to deepen South-South cooperation to help developing countries enhance their capabilities in climate adaption," he noted.
China handed over a satellite to Ethiopian operators to help the African nation tackle climate change late last year.
The donation not only covers the satellite itself, but also includes launching, technical training, a ground receiving station and many other related services. In May 2017 and February 2019, engineers from the Ethiopia Space Science and Technology Institute visited China for training on the spacecraft's operations.
In an interview with Xinhua News Agency in late 2019, Solomon Belay, director-general of the institute, said once fully operational, the satellite is expected to save Ethiopia about 350 million birr ($8.9 million) every year than the amount it currently spends to receive information from satellites owned by other countries.
The satellite can help the country that economically depends on agriculture monitor floods and droughts and offer support for decision-making on land use.
