China Trade Week to be held for fourth year in Kenya - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
An exhibition featuring high-end Chinese-made products will be held for the fourth consecutive year in Nairobi, Kenya, from June 13-20.
MIE Group, a Dubai-based event organizing firm with growing presence in China, said &nbsp;the trade fair has been split into two sessions because of the growing number of exhibitors and local participants. This year will see 550 Chinese exhibitors showcasing products, an increase from 450 in 2017. At least 16,500 visitors attended the week-long event last year. It will be held again at the Kenyatta International Convention Center.
"Kenya is the most developed economy in Eastern Africa and also the economic, commercial, and logistical hub of the entire region. The China-Kenya economic cooperation and trade in various fields has gained momentum over the years, and it is the very reason why we are holding the China Trade Week in Nairobi for the fourth time," David Wang, the managing director of MIE Events, said.
The first phase of exhibits from June 13-15, will include building material, HVAC, lighting, construction material, water and environmental treatment, furniture and interior and textiles followed by three days of consumer goods, automobile and auto parts, electrical, IT and agriculture.
Michelle Meyrick, MIE's international events director, said that the trade fair brings together retailers, manufacturers, distributors, importers and exporters in Kenya with their counterparts from China, and that it is experiencing tremendous success in forging trade links between the two countries.
A $2.9 million deal was signed by Yu Shi Huitong Tea Development Company for 20 containers of green tea. Another Chinese company, Shan She Min She Electronic Technology, ordered at least 1,000 oxygen concentrators worth $1 million from Kenya. "I think the exhibition will improve the ongoing trade relations between the two countries," she said, adding that China Trade Week was inspired by China's Belt and Road initiative.
Addressing increasing concerns of the widening trade deficit between the two countries in favor of China, Meyrick said the links created during the exhibition will eventually see Chinese investors setting up factories in Kenya.
"I believe that the trade deficit will be bridged in the long term. Right now entrepreneurs from both countries are forging linkages and we have already see this happening in the agricultural sector. Kenya is the world largest producer of quality tea while China is the largest consumer. Hopefully participating companies are here seeking better trade relations in Kenya and regionally," she said.
On issues concerning the quality of products from China, the Dubai-based director, said sessions will be held during the exhibition week to create awareness on high quality products found in China. "If you put in the investments, of course you will receive quality products. China is the world manufacturer," said Meyrick
She said most of the exhibitors have been vetted by the company and they have the capacity and capability of producing products according to required specifications and be able to deliver on time. The company has seven offices in China.
Similar trade fairs have been held in in the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Ethiopia, South Africa, Morocco and Ghana.
<em>Contact the writer at Lucymorangi@chinadaily.com.cn</em>
