Rapid progress marks China-South Africa ties - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>Two countries will hold cultural events in Beijing and Johannesburg to celebrate 20 years of diplomatic relations</strong>
Since China and South Africa established diplomatic relations 20 years ago, in January 1998, the two countries' diplomatic and economic ties have grown rapidly, advancing from a partnership to a strategic partnership and, finally, a comprehensive strategic partnership.
Manelisi Genge, the chief director for East Asia and Oceania at South Africa's Department of International Relations and Cooperation, the country's foreign ministry, says the relationship has grown in this short time into &quot;one of the most important partnerships&quot; for the African nation.
For one, the two countries currently share various global platforms, including the Group of 20 and the BRICS bloc of emerging economies (the other members are Brazil, Russia and India). In addition, China is South Africa's biggest trading partner. South Africa's official data show that trade volume has increased year-on-year from $24.4 billion in 2015 to $24.9 billion in 2016, while total trade volume in 2017 was $26.51 billion, with a trade deficit of $7.23 billion for South Africa.
Genge says a people-to-people exchange mechanism established last year was the first of its kind on the continent. Moreover, an increasing number of South African students will study in China under a Beijing-sponsored program, and China accounts for the largest number of international visitors to South Africa.
To mark the celebrations, the two countries plan to hold cultural events in Beijing and Johannesburg.
&quot;The first goal is to take stock of our relationship, which will determine our future,&quot; says Genge, adding that South Africa hopes the next two decades will bring the peoples of both countries together and witness increased trade collaboration and quicker mechanisms for dispute resolution.
&quot;We can no longer ignore the increasing global influence of China. Besides reorientating its global political influence, manufactured products from its factories are household names in South Africa. It would be foolhardy for any country right now to fail in cultivating relations with China.&quot;
South Africa is interested in having China as its development partner in its efforts to tackle some of its persistent challenges, Genge adds. Priorities for the African nation are accelerating economic growth, generating employment for the largely youthful population, fighting poverty and bridging the trade deficit with China, he says.
Frequent reviews have been undertaken to improve trade between the two countries, with the two countries cooperating on special economic zones, industrial parks and industrial production capacity.
