Railway gets Kenyan lives on track - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>China-backed express train has ferried 1.3m passengers</strong>
NAIROBI－Felix Asuma was determined at a tender age to pursue civil engineering with the aim of participating in modernization of Kenya's transport infrastructure.
The 27-year-old General Affairs Workshop Supervisor at the Nairobi-Mombasa Standard Gauge Railway commuter service credits his study tour in China for acquiring skills required to operate a modern train.
During an interview on Friday, Asuma said he felt honored to be among Kenyan youth whose expertise has been harnessed to operate the SGR train service since its launch on May 31 last year.
"My experience since I joined the SGR commuter service last year has been good. It is built on advanced Chinese technology that I am familiar with and having been mentored by Chinese engineers, I am convinced I have gained enough skills to handle its operation and maintenance," said Asuma.
He pursued a bachelor's degree in civil engineering at Southwest Jiaotong University under a Chinese government scholarship.
Asuma also studied the Chinese language for a year in Shanghai and his engineering prowess combined with proficiency in Mandarin secured him a position with the Africa Star Railway Operation Company Ltd.
His day job involves monitoring safety to ensure wildlife or livestock don't wander on to the tracks.
Asuma aspires to rise through the ranks at the train service that he credits for transforming his life while improving Kenya's economy.
"I have gained immense knowledge in civil engineering since joining SGR one and a half years ago. It has met my needs and has also improved the economy of this country while shortening the journey from Nairobi to Mombasa," Asuma said.
President Uhuru Kenyatta last year launched the passenger train service to operate along the 480-kilometer China-funded railway linking the capital Nairobi to the port city of Mombasa.
<strong>Madaraka Express</strong>
Dubbed the "Madaraka Express", the SGR commuter train has so far ferried an estimated 1.3 million passengers while stimulating commerce along its corridor.
The Madaraka Express has opened new opportunities for Kenyan youth trained in diverse disciplines like engineering, finance, hospitality and communication.
Harrison Kimani, 23, an economics major from Kenyatta University, joined the SGR service in February 2017 to work as an assistant manager in charge of passenger service.
He went to China in 2016 to undertake a four-month course in railway operations and said: "It has been an exciting learning curve since joining the SGR passenger service last year. So far, I have gained skills required to manage its operations," said Kimani.
Kimani, who is fluent in Mandarin, added that Kenyan workers at the SGR have also been keen to teach their Chinese peers the native language and rich culture of the East African nation.
Kimani said many Kenyans are keen to witness full localization of SGR operations but stressed patience is required to ensure the process is seamless.
"As for now, we should wait until we acquire the skills and technology to run it," said Kimani.
He added that Kenya will benefit from tapping into the wealth of knowledge and experience from Chinese expatriates to run a modern commuter train service.
