Xi urges more joint innovation efforts - Chinadaily.com.cn
China, South Africa to boost exchanges among young scientists, president says
President Xi Jinping has called for a joint effort with South Africa to promote cooperation in scientific innovation across the world.
Xi spoke at the opening of the South Africa-China Scientists High-Level Dialogue on Tuesday. He said China-South Africa cooperation in scientific innovation faces great opportunities.
Xi said building on progress already made, the two countries must now develop new platforms for innovation and enhance exchanges in areas including mining, biology, archaeology and aerospace.
The two sides should boost exchanges among young scientists, proactively take part in global innovation networks and promote open cooperation in innovation with countries around the world. This will push forward China-South Africa science and technology innovative cooperation to keep up with global trends in science and technology development and endeavor to become top players in such development, he said.
Since the establishment of diplomatic relations 20 years ago, China and South Africa have developed solid mutual trust, enhanced practical cooperation and strengthened people-to-people exchanges, Xi said, adding that this has brought tangible benefits for the nations' people.
China and the African continent have made great progress in building joint labs and research centers, Xi said, adding that China supports Africa's flagship projects in science and technology.
China and South Africa collaboration in technological cooperation, industrial parks, scientific research and construction of joint research platforms also was highlighted.
The China-South Africa comprehensive strategic partnership should be deepened with the participation of scholars, experts, entrepreneurs and scientists on both sides, Xi added.
During the opening ceremony, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said his nation would like to enhance cooperation with China in anticipation of major technological changes around the world.
Ramaphosa spoke highly of Xi's efforts in promoting the two countries' cooperation in science, technology and innovation.
The South Africa-China Scientists High-Level Dialogue demonstrated the two countries' resolution in promoting growth through science and technology innovation and their cooperation potential, he said.
The South African government is committed to strengthening science and technology innovative cooperation so as to better cope with the fourth industrial revolution, Ramaphosa said, adding that China is a reliable science and research cooperation partner for his country.
He also thanked China for its commitment in helping Africa's development and in promoting Africa-China science and technology innovative cooperation under the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation.
Before the opening ceremony, the two presidents attended a photo exhibition on the achievements of China-South Africa cooperation in science and innovation.
Among the exhibits were photos of Africa's flagship projects in science and technology, science and technology achievements of South Africa and China and their cooperation results.
Xinhua contributed to this story.
