Jin Yetao Scholarship for vocational training launches in Kenya - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
In honor of Jin Yetao, a Chinese national who died in the March 10 crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, the Kenya-China Economic and Trade Association on Monday announced the launch of a scholarship in his name to support vocational and technical training development in Kenya.
Jin was an employee of Aviation Industry Corporation of China, a trade association member. He devoted his entire career to vocational and technical training development in Kenya and the Greater East African region.
"The Jin Yetao Scholarship is a special scholarship bestowed by the trade association, dedicated to college students in vocational and technical universities. As we deeply regret the untimely loss of an excellent Chinese citizen who dedicated his professional career to the development of Africa, the impact and legacy he has left behind through his work is immense. Through this scholarship we wish to continue that legacy," Li Changgui, the trade association's chairman, said.
"It is our sincere hope that the scholarship in his honor will encourage generations to come to follow in his footsteps to promote vocational and technical skills in the Kenyan workforce, which is of paramount importance to the Big Four Agenda and overall development of Kenya," added Li, who is also general manager of the China Road and Bridge Corporation in Kenya.
According to Li Chen, the trade association's secretary, the scholarship commenced with an initial Ksh1.5 million ($15,000) to benefit 15 Kenyan students. The first batch scholarships will be awarded in September. Universities that have expressed willingness to participate in the program include Kenya Technical Trainers College and Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology.
Li indicated only students in their last two years of study are eligible to apply and she hopes more higher vocational institutes in Kenya will be involved in the program.
Born in 1986, Jin joined AVIC International immediately after graduating with a bachelor's degree in 2011. He was in charge of the company's overseas vocational and technical training programs, traveling to more than 30 countries in 2018 alone. He was on a training program mission when he boarded the ill-fated flight from Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa, to Kenya's capital, Nairobi, which ended in a horrific crash that claimed the lives of all 157 passengers and crew.
In remembrance of their beloved colleague, AVIC International staffers expressed deep sorrow for Jin's sudden demise.
"He was very young, passionate and dedicated. He had loved and valued the work he was doing. He was a shining star from China who had made great contributions to vocational training, medical insurance and infrastructure development in Kenya. It is fair to say he was an excellent ambassador of the Belt and Road Initiative, which aims to expand cooperation between China and Africa. We will remember him forever," said Su Tianshu, the chief representative of AVIC International Kenya.
Kevit Desai, the principal secretary of the State Department for Vocational and Technical Training in Kenya, expressed appreciation of the Jin Yetao Scholarship.
"As the government aims to deliver the Big Four Agenda and as we continue to promote Kenya's regional and global competitiveness, we understand how important vocational and technical skills are. They are the foundation in which all industries will prosper and lead to the creation of meaningful jobs that will have a huge impact on the Kenyan economy," Desai said.
He also expressed his condolences to the victims and families of the plane crash.
"We are saddened by the devastation that the air crash has caused so many families, but we must inherit the victims' will and continue what they started. In that sense, the scholarship is very timely and has great significance," he added.
Desai echoed comments by Guo Ce, the economic and commercial counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Kenya.
"We appreciate the kind gesture from the trade association to set up such a special scholarship. Jin is a representative of hundreds of Chinese expatriates working in many different sectors across Kenya. His story will encourage our Chinese compatriots and their Kenyan counterparts to work even harder and jointly promote our friendship to an even higher level," the diplomat said.
The trade association is a non-governmental organization that comprises 97 members of Chinese companies. The association aims to explore business cooperation between China and Kenya to enhance cultural exchanges, while actively shouldering corporate social responsibilities to promote community cohesion.
