Kenya Railways dismisses rumors against Chinese operator - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Kenya Railways (KR) Board Chairman Michael Waweru has formed an ad hoc board committee to spearhead the process of resolving the issues highlighted on various platforms concerning Kenya's Standard Gauge Railway project.
Among the matters to be addressed with urgency are the staff concerns against the operator of the railway, China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC). The board committees will submit a report in three weeks on the findings and the way forward.
The committee will also delve into environmental and wildlife conservation concerns being raised regarding the SGR project and, if found necessary, an independent auditor will be appointed for that purpose.
In his statement to the newsrooms, Waweru has also dismissed as falsehoods reports doing rounds on various media to the effect that CRBC employees are being forced to sign a secrecy agreement that compels them to not disclose information about the operation of the Madaraka Express Services.
While reaffirming the corporation's position on the matter as contained in a statement by the Kenya Railways management, Waweru said that upon conclusion of investigations, appropriate action will be taken based on the findings and recommendations of the committees.
On July 8, 2018, Kenya's Sunday Standard newspaper published a report on alleged incidents of mistreatment of local staff employed by CRBC to facilitate operations at the Standard Gauge Railway (Madaraka Express operations). Following the report, KR launched investigations on the same allegation.
"The said reports have elicited a lot of emotions from members of the public. The outrage, anger and disappointment expressed is understandable and we share the same sentiments. This unethical conduct, if found to be authentic, is completely unacceptable," a statement from KR read.
KR says it has instructed the Standard Gauge Railway operator, CRBC, to submit a report for critical review against what is in the public domain.
KR has also deployed its human resources team to engage with the local staff employed by the operator in order to independently establish the authenticity of the allegations to inform further actions.
"We have taken the matters very seriously and should culpability be established against any person or persons, action will be taken in accordance with the contract between us and the operator and in accordance with the laws of Kenya. Kenya Railways is committed to observe the highest ethical standards possible in execution of its mandate," KR said.
CRBC is undertaking the operations of the railway under the operations and maintenance services contract entered into by the parties in May 2017.
