Kenya receives medical aid as first ladies work to help women, children - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
NAIROBI－Kenya on Wednesday received a batch of medical supplies from the Chinese government under a coronavirus-fighting initiative involving the first ladies of African leaders.
The aid was arranged with the help of the Organization of African First Ladies for Development, or OAFLAD, which is turning its attention to aiding mothers and children in the battle against COVID-19.
The Chinese embassy was entrusted by China's first lady, Peng Liyuan, to hand over the medical supplies to Angella Githere-Langat, the coordinator of Kenyan first lady Margaret Kenyatta's Beyond Zero initiative.
Githere-Langat received the Chinese donation at the organization's office in Nairobi on behalf of Kenyatta, who said the donation will go a long way in supporting her efforts to safeguard vulnerable people amid the country's coronavirus outbreak.
Zhao Xiyuan, charge d'affaires of the Chinese embassy in Kenya, said the donation reflects Peng's care for the health and development of Kenyan women and children as well as the friendship between China and Kenya.
&quot;In the face of COVID-19, China and Kenya have offered mutual support and fought shoulder to shoulder with each other,&quot; Zhao said in a statement issued after the ceremony in Nairobi. &quot;China shall always remember the invaluable support Kenya gave us at the height of our battle with the coronavirus.
&quot;In return, when Kenya was struck by the virus, China was the first to rush in with assistance and has since stood firm with the Kenyan people.&quot;
Zhao expressed optimism that through Beyond Zero, the donated medical supplies will play a role in helping Kenyan women, children, adolescents and other vulnerable groups in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic.
Githere-Langat pointed out that the donation is a demonstration of China's friendship with Kenya and continued collaboration through the OAFLAD.
The Beyond Zero initiative was set up to help improve maternal and child health in Kenya, and to reduce HIV infections among children.
