Stronger China, Africa ties key to virus fight - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>Togolese community head: 'We should strengthen cooperation, understanding'</strong>
Mutual understanding and cooperation between China and Africa can help better fight the COVID-19 pandemic and further boost business activity, according to business representatives.
"Despite the COVID-19 pandemic spreading in Africa, business activities between China and Africa will never stop," said Maximus Ogbonna, president of the Association of Nigerian Community in China.
Ogbonna first came to Guangzhou－capital of Guangdong province－seven years ago for business. He married a local Chinese woman in 2009.
"Now I have two kids－a 10-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son. I never thought I would like living here so much," he said.
Language was never a barrier in doing business and living in Guangzhou as he speaks fluent Chinese.
"My Chinese friends told me to 'eat slowly' when I dined with them. Now I understand that they were telling me to enjoy the food," he said.
Nigerians make up the largest group of Africans living in Guangzhou, Ogbonna said.
"They are doing business, or studying here," he added.
As of April 10, Guangzhou－a trading juggernaut－had registered 4,553 people from Africa, with all having received nucleic acid tests in accordance with authorities' measures in prevention and control of COVID-19, said the local government.
A total of 111 Africans in the city have tested positive for COVID-19 as of Monday, with 19 showing symptoms, authorities said.
"I think Nigerians now understand the Guangzhou government's efforts in prevention and control of the disease－establishment of trust and cooperation help us better prevent COVID-19 from spreading," he said.
Nhalochy Lare Tietimpo, president of the Association of Togolese Community in China, said the COVID-19 pandemic has helped Chinese and African people achieve better understanding.
"We cannot cut off our friendship due to the pandemic. Instead, we should strengthen cooperation and understanding, both in fighting against the disease and in doing business," he said.
The association president, who has three children after taking a Chinese woman as his wife in 2011, has been in Guangzhou for 20 years.
"I often tell my friends in Africa that Guangzhou would be an ideal place for them to realize their dreams. Also, I would like to recommend Chinese people visit my country, which has a nice beach and scenery," he said.
Hou Jianxiong, chairman of Shineng Group, said the company would not halt its investments in Africa, though the COVID-19 pandemic had already affected business activity between both sides. "We should join hands to face the challenge," Hou said.
The Guangdong-based company began investing in Africa in 2010 via joint ventures in Uganda's energy sector.
"We have some 30 Chinese workers in Africa. And I told them to abide by the local quarantine rules," he said.
Hou said there are currently 37 Guangdong companies invested in Uganda, involved in sectors including manufacturing, electricity, agriculture, fishing and mining.
