Kenyan employers look to China for reopening lessons - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Federation of Kenya Employers has said it will leverage robust economic and trade ties with China to hasten the safe reopening of local enterprises after months of shutdown. This was revealed during a virtual briefing whose theme was, &quot;Considerations on Business Re-opening, the China and Norway experience&quot;, hosted by the federation on Wednesday.
According to Jacqueline Mugo, the federation's executive director, China's experience in post-coronavirus economic reopening presents vital lessons to local businesses amid the quest to kick-start their operations.
&quot;Kenya is ready to learn from China and other countries that were initially affected by the coronavirus but are now in the process of reopening their businesses. We are focusing on increased cooperation with Chinese enterprises to strengthen responsible business practices beyond the coronavirus pandemic season,&quot; Mugo said during the virtual briefing.
While contributing to the webinar as the guest speaker, Michael Niu, the division director and associate researcher at the International Department of China Enterprise Confederation, said that Kenyan businesses can apply best practices from their Chinese counterparts to ensure reopening does not compromise the safety of employees and customers.
&quot;The most important lesson for businesses in China or Kenya is that workers' safety is paramount during the reopening. Chinese businesses have prioritized hygiene measures and social distancing to protect employees from coronavirus,&quot; Niu said.
Niu added that government interventions are very critical for individual and business survival as people move into the new normal. He said that governments should put into consideration reduction of costs, like electricity and other utilities, to help businesses that are trying to pick up the pieces.
Magnus Ruderass, an assistant director at Norway's International Cooperation Program Confederation, pointed out that reopening Norway has been a gradual and well thought out plan at the sector level. She urged the federation to note collaborations among all partners involved in the plans for resumption are key in this season.
Mugo acknowledged China's contribution to Kenya's anti-coronavirus fight, adding that knowledge, expertise and technology from the Asian country can be applied locally to enhance the smooth resumption of business activities.
&quot;This cooperation between Kenyan and Chinese businesses will enhance the sharing of lessons on workplace safety to ensure employees and clients are protected from contracting the disease,&quot; Mugo said.
Kenya's nationwide dusk-to-dawn curfew and lockdown in parts of the country will expire on Monday and many businesses are hoping Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya's president, will relax more restrictions allowing more businesses and employers to resume operations at least in part.
