$3 million donation from China to Liberia boosts pandemic response - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
China on Monday handed over more than $3 million worth of drugs and equipment to Liberia's Ministry of National Defense for use by the 14th Military Hospital, located in the country's Margibi County.
While speaking at the handover ceremony, Han Xiao, a representative of the Chinese Embassy, recounted the strong relationship between Liberia and China, and said China was pleased to help the people of Liberia during this difficult period.
"Through hard work and painful sacrifice, the Chinese people have basically controlled the spread of the virus in China and also have guaranteed the safety of the Armed Forces of Liberia soldiers who now study in China," Han added.
He also lauded the government of Liberia for being far-sighted in constructing the military hospital for use by the Liberian military and other sectors of society.
Daniel Ziankahn, Liberia's Minister of National Defense, thanked the Chinese government for its continued support to the Armed Forces of Liberia and Liberia in general. Ziankahn further assured the Chinese government the supplies will go a long way in helping the fight against the pandemic.
Among the items donated include two Intensive Care Unit ambulances, medical devices, laboratory equipment, emergency department equipment, obstetrics equipment, surgical equipment and out-patient equipment.
Han asserted that in the face of the outbreak, which took the entire world by surprise, the Chinese government has put people's life and health first, including foreign friends currently studying or working in China.
He pledged the Chinese government's unflinching support and assistance to the professional development of the Armed Forces of Liberia, which he believes will enhance the already existing traditional friendship and cooperation between the two countries.
Han further stated the coronavirus pandemic has presented an opportunity for the Chinese government to provide more study opportunities to the Armed Forces of Liberia in the field of medicine.
