Kenya railway police to train in Beijing - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Twenty-nine Kenyan railway police officers will be sent to Beijing on Sunday for training to ensure maintenance of maximum security in operations of Kenya's Standard Gauge Railway.
According to Patrick Makokha, the deputy commandant of Kenya Railways and Ports Police Service, the police officers will be trained on security, investigation, and submission of evidence.
Makokha, who made the remarks during a farewell luncheon held at the Chinese embassy's commercial and economic counselor's office, noted that the police officers will tour several cities in China using railway systems to acquire first-hand knowledge and skills.
"We are grateful to the government of China, through the embassy, for their efforts to help us to shape up the security of the railway transport system. We value their commitment in making a difference in our railway security sector," he said.
Makokha urged the officers to grab the opportunity, work very hard and come back with results, noting that the officers were selected through a very vigorous system.
Speaking during the same event, Guo Ce, the Chinese Embassy's commercial and economic counselor said the seminar for the railway police officers was designed to protect the Standard Gauge Railway project, which is an early venture of the Belt and Road Initiative.
Guo said the bilateral seminar will provide the police officers the opportunity to learn more about China.
"You will learn more about China's national conditions, the history of China's railways' development, special lectures such as railway crimes, and railway fire fighting, among other things, " Guo told the officers.
He said the officers also will experience the Chinese high speed railway, as well as visit natural and historical sites in China.
"We hope you will benefit from these seminars and try to implement what you will have learned in your own field when you come back," he said.
To better serve a country, Guo said, human resources must be closely integrated with economic development.
"Currently, the construction and operation of large-scale infrastructure projects represented by SGR calls for more contributions from outstanding government officials and professional technicians," he said.
Guo said recently the Kenyan government and the Chinese operator incorporated stringent security measures to curb unsecured situations and crime in the railway's operation.
"At present, the SGR passenger and cargo operations are in good condition. I think the safe operation is inseparable from the excellent professionalism and sense of responsibility of the Kenya railway police," he said.
Guo said human resources has been the key area for deepening cooperation between China and Kenya in recent years.
In the past two years, through bilateral and multilateral channels, the Chinese embassy in Kenya has invited more than 1,000 Kenyan officials and technicians to China to participate in short-term training. It also has funded 70 local students to study for master's and doctoral degree programs at famous universities in China.
David Berich, the commissioner of police, urged the officers to use the opportunity positively.
"When you go for the seminar, work hard and try to gain as much knowledge as possible and put it into use once you come back. Don't only concentrate on the railway; also learn more about Chinese culture," he said.
Johnstone Mwanghila, the assistant superintendent of national police service and a team leader of the group leaving for Beijing, said that being the first of its kind project in Africa, it is important to take the Standard Gauge Railway security system to the next level.
"The initiative by the Chinese embassy to sponsor us for training is noble because the railway belongs to Kenya and at some point the Chinese will go back to their country, leaving Kenyans to manage it. The acquired skills will enable us to manage the railway well," he said.
