Uganda assures Chinese investors of security after series of attacks - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
ENTEBBE, Uganda, Nov. 14 -- Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni on Wednesday announced new security measures to protect the Chinese business community that has faced a series of gang attacks.
While meeting the business community at State House Entebbe, 40 km south of the capital Kampala, Museveni said that military units will be deployed at Chinese industrial parks from where they can be called upon in case of an attack.
Museveni told the meeting, which was also attended by Chinese ambassador to Uganda Zheng Zhuqiang and Uganda's top security chiefs, that factories not in industrial parks will be guarded by police.
He said there should be a communication link between the Chinese factories and the police to enable quick reaction in case of an attack.
"I am not very worried about this crime, I know we shall solve it," Museveni said.
He said since the operation will be military-led, laxity by any security officer would not be acceptable.
"All policemen, security guards will be treated as soldiers. Therefore the relaxed way will no longer be there," Museveni said.
He said the new measures will complement those already in place like installing cameras in towns and major highways.
The military has also deployed troops in Kampala to fight crimes.
Museveni urged the investors not to be discouraged by the recent robberies, noting that there are a lot of business opportunities in Uganda.
The meeting was held only a day after Ambassador Zheng handed Museveni the petition by the business community calling for urgent action against the increased attacks that have left some of its members seriously injured.
Chinese investors have set up several industrial parks across the east African country. China is also financing major infrastructure projects such as the Karuma and Isimba hydropower plants, and the expansion of Entebbe International Airport, the country's gateway to the rest of the world.
