Algeria congratulates China on 59th anniversary of diplomatic relations - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
ALGIERS - Algeria congratulates China on 59th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika on Wednesday congratulated his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on the occasion of the 59th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, official APS news agency reported on Wednesday.
Bouteflika extended congratulations and wishes for well-being and prosperity to "the friendly Chinese people" in his message to Xi.
"This anniversary is an opportunity to put forwards friendship and solidarity characterizing the decades-long relations linking our two countries," he added.
Bouteflika hailed "the qualitative development of bilateral cooperation since the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership," saying the Chinese investment in Algeria and the growing commercial exchanges "testify to the vitality of our bilateral cooperation."
Algeria and China "have always shown mutual solidarity and support in all circumstances, while in light of current challenges in international relations, we will continue our cooperation, so as to achieve stability and promote our two countries," Bouteflika further noted.
He also expressed optimism concerning the future of bilateral relations, regarding the multiple opportunities, particularly in the industrial, technological, agricultural and tourism fields.
Bouteflika concluded his message by expressing his "satisfaction with the cultural exchanges," mentioning the donations from China for "the realization of cultural projects in Algeria," including establishing an opera hall in Algiers.
Bilateral relationships between Algeria and China have been enhanced by the comprehensive strategic partnership established in 2014.
Some 790 Chinese companies are operating in Algeria in the fields of public works and construction, in addition to energy and trade.
According to figures from Algeria's customs, China is the largest commercial supplier of Algeria during the first ten months of 2017.
