Egypt receives 2nd batch of anti-virus medical aid from Chinese govt - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
CAIRO - Egypt received on Sunday the second batch of medical aid from the Chinese government for the North African country to fight the COVID-19 epidemic.
The second batch consists of 440 boxes weighing 4.7 tons, including 10,000 N95 face masks, 10,000 protective suits and 70,000 nucleic acid detection reagents, said Chinese Ambassador to Egypt Liao Liqiang in a ceremony held at the headquarters of Egypt's health ministry's main storehouse for medical supplies in Cairo.
"This is an important moment for Egypt to fight the epidemic, maintain production and promote economic development at the same time," the Chinese ambassador told a press conference on the sidelines of the ceremony.
"China has always been supporting the economic and social development of Egypt," Liao told the attendees, expressing his belief that under the leaderships of both countries "China and Egypt will work together to finally overcome the epidemic."
The first batch of Chinese medical aid to Egypt was delivered in mid-April, which consisted of 20,000 N95 face masks, 10,000 protective suits and 10,000 testing kits for COVID-19.
The third batch, which will be delivered later this month, includes 150,000 N95 masks, 1 million surgical masks, 70,000 medical protective suits, 70,000 pairs of disposable surgical gloves and 1,000 thermometers, weighing about 30 tons, according to the Chinese ambassador.
It is worth noting that several Chinese provincial and municipal governments, organizations and enterprises have also delivered medical supplies to Egypt, such as face masks, protective suits, testing reagents, and artificial intelligence CT screening system for lung scanning.
The ceremony was attended by a number of Chinese and Egyptian diplomats and officials, including Wael al-Sa'ei, Egyptian assistant health minister for financial and administrative affairs.
"We would like to offer our sincere thanks and appreciation to the Chinese government for the support it has been and is still providing for Egypt to face the spread of the novel coronavirus," said the Egyptian assistant health minister.
Such support "strengthens mutual cooperation between the two countries and enhances the close ties between the two peoples of Egypt and China," he added.
Al-Sa'ei also thanked China's Alibaba Group for donating to Egypt 5.5 tons of medical supplies and devices in 512 boxes.
"We hope that these difficult conditions will be over and the Egyptian-Chinese ties will continue prospering in all fields of cooperation," said the Egyptian official during the ceremony.
