China and Kenya forging ahead with cooperation - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
&nbsp;
China and Kenya agreed to enhance pragmatic cooperation and further promote bilateral ties as China's top political adviser, Wang Yang, visited the East African country from June 16 to 19.
&nbsp;
During his meeting with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 19, Wang, chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, hailed the robust development of bilateral ties.
He said President Xi Jinping and Kenyatta had lifted the status of the China-Kenya relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership of cooperation in May 2017, heralding a bright future for bilateral ties.
Describing cooperation between the two countries as "a good example" of China-Africa cooperation, Wang said he had fully felt the vigor and vitality of Kenya's economic and social development and the strong momentum of China-Kenya cooperation during his visit.
This year marks the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and Kenya. Wang called on both countries to further deepen political mutual trust and enhance synergy of their development strategies.
He also called on the two countries to provide firmer support to each other on issues concerning their core interests and major concerns, promote high-level cooperation in more areas and intensify coordination on international and regional affairs.
Wang said new measures for China-Africa cooperation in the new era would be announced during the Beijing summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in September to boost China-Africa win-win cooperation.
He extended an invitation to Kenyatta to attend the summit.
Hailing the solid political mutual trust and win-win cooperation between the two countries, Kenyatta said Kenya had actively participated in the Belt and Road Initiative and gained substantial benefits.
Kenya firmly supports China in hosting a successful FOCAC summit, he said, adding that his country stands ready to increase the number of high-level visits and dovetail development strategies.
He said Kenya welcomed China expanding cooperation in areas including investment, economy and trade and tourism to develop an even stronger comprehensive strategic partnership.
Kenya is the last stop of Wang's 10-day African tour, which started on June 11.
During his four-day stay in Uganda, Wang met with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, Speaker of the National Assembly Rebecca Kadaga and Vice-President Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi, and held talks with Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda.
Meeting with Museveni, Wang said presidents Xi and Museveni had met several times and charted a course for the future development of bilateral ties. Wang invited Museveni to attend the FOCAC summit in Beijing.
"As the chairman of the CPPCC National Committee, I paid my first visit to Uganda to implement the important consensus reached by both presidents and promote the development of bilateral ties," Wang said.
China is currently striving for the realization of its "Two Centenary Goals" under the guidance of the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, while Uganda is committed to its national development plan Uganda Vision 2040, Wang said, calling on the countries to dovetail their development strategies and cooperate under the framework of the FOCAC and the Belt and Road Initiative.
Describing China and Africa as a community with a shared future and shared interests, Wang said China firmly supports African countries, including Uganda, in choosing development paths suitable to their national conditions.
Hailing the traditional deep-rooted friendship between Uganda and China, Museveni said the older generations of Chinese leadership had always stood together with the Ugandan people in anti-colonial struggles and moves toward national independence.
Xinhua
