China, South Africa agree to further enhance cooperation - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
PRETORIA - China and South Africa on Sunday agreed to further strengthen bilateral cooperation in face of a complex and changing international landscape.
During a meeting with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said his country has always viewed its relations with China from a strategic perspective and expects to further strengthen bilateral cooperation under the current complex and changing international circumstances.
For his part, Wang said that at a time when socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era and South Africa's national development has entered a new stage, China-South Africa relations are presented with a historic opportunity that is inheriting the past and ushering in the future.
The two sides should strengthen coordination, enhance strategic mutual trust and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, Wang said.
Faced with an international landscape that is undergoing complicated changes, their comprehensive strategic partnership should not only safeguard the common interests of the two countries and those of developing countries at large, but also strive to be more pragmatic, more effective and to bring more benefits to the people, said the Chinese state councilor.
Wang stressed that China firmly supports South Africa in its endeavor to grow and become stronger, which is not only in line with South Africa's interests, but also will be conducive to the strengthening of the power of developing countries at large.
During their meeting, Ramaphosa asked Wang to convey his warm greetings to Chinese President Xi Jinping, saying that the whole country welcomes President Xi to come to South Africa in July to attend the BRICS Summit and pay a state visit to the country.
It is believed that the visit will surely be successful and provide a new opportunity for and inject strong impetus into the deepening of South Africa-China comprehensive strategic partnership, said Ramaphosa.
South Africa will continue to firmly adhere to the one-China policy, said Ramaphosa, adding that he is pleased his country will be the only guest of honor from Africa at the China International Import Expo to be held in Shanghai in November.
Wang conveyed President Xi's warm greetings to President Ramaphosa, noting that this year is of great significance in China-South Africa relations and China-Africa cooperation.
Wang said the two sides should take President Xi's visit to South Africa and President Ramaphosa's visit to China as an opportunity, and support each other in ensuring the success of the BRICS Summit hosted by South Africa and the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) hosted by China, in order to advance China-South Africa relations into a new stage and lift China-Africa cooperation to a new level.
Wang also held talks with South African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu on Monday.
