China-Kenya intensify political cooperation through capacity building programs - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Kenya's ruling Jubilee Party is pushing ahead with efforts to learn and replicate the successes of the Communist Party of China, according to the ruling Jubilee party's secretary-general.
Raphael Tuju made the comment on Tuesday when the Chinese ambassador to Kenya, Liu Xianfa, paid a courtesy call at the party's headquarters in Nairobi.
"We have learned that service to the people is the foundation of a successful political party," said Tuju who was recently appointed a cabinet secretary. "Kenya needs a stable and visionary party that would successfully translate the president's vision into reality to benefit millions of Kenyans."
President Uhuru Kenyatta was re-elected for his second term late last year on the platform of strengthening food security, access to affordable housing, improving the manufacturing sector and increasing access to affordable healthcare for all.
Tuju noted that the country is facing difficult times such as high unemployment among youths, food insecurity caused by prolonged drought and high poverty rates. China has faced similar challenges and overcome them and gone ahead to successfully uplift millions of people from poverty within three decades, Tuju said. "These are the achievements Kenya wants to realize too," he said.
"We are keen to learn how the CPC has realized this fete. Jubilee is strengthening political ties with China at a time the Asian giant is planning to improve the lives of 46 million people, who are still below the poverty line, by the year 2020. Moreover, we want to build our capacity in running party operations," said Tuju.
Liu said the CPC is keen on strengthening relations with the Jubilee party and Kenya. "We are committed to implementing capacity building programs as agreed by the two countries during talks between President Kenyatta and Wang Xiaohui, the executive vice-minister of the publicity department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee three weeks ago.
Liu noted that the exchange program aims to build Jubilee's capacity to attract a strong support base especially from the youth and to make progress to benefit people. The envoy added that the programs between the two parties have been successful, and he said that he was confident that more local party officials will visit China to build their knowledge about the country.
During his visit, Wang announced that China will provide 20 scholarships to the Jubilee party. Local officials will get an opportunity to receive training on democracy and party management.
