China-built railway hailed as a sign of better years to come - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Chinese and Kenyans celebrated the ushering in of the Chinese New Year and the Year of the Dog with traditional and contemporary songs and dances.
Under the theme, "New Journey, Tighter Bond'', students from the Confucius Institute at the University of Nairobi presented the performances.
At the celebration, the year 2017 also was hailed as one when China-Kenya cooperation reached historical heights with the launch of the $3.8 billion standard gauge railway (SGR) developed by the China Roads and Bridge Corporation (CRBC).
Guo Ce, the economic and commercial counselor at the Chinese embassy in Kenya, said 2017 was a year when the modern railway made its mark when it was launched in May, six months ahead of schedule.
"The launch of the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR highlighted to the world the Chinese quality and spirit. The year 2018 is the year when the two will develop their strategic relationship and mark the anniversary of diplomatic relations. The Forum of China-Africa Cooperation summit will also be held in Beijing. I believe the Sino-African relationship is facing interesting times," he said.
He urged the CRBC workers to commit to the completion of the railway that is being &nbsp;extending to the Kenya-Uganda border, saying that the company should observe the spirit of China's People's Congress and President Xi Jinping's commitment to better prosperity for humanity.
The Chairman of CRBC SGR operations, Li Quanhuai, observed that more than 800 Chinese experts have arrived in Africa to offer their skills under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
More than 3,000 Kenyans participated in the successful launch of the passenger train services in May and the cargo train in November this year.
"The SGR is operated safely and orderly, gaining popularity among the locals. This fete is a manifestation of a modern Africa and a true witness of integration, development and winning cooperation between China and Africa," said Li.
"We aspire to keep developing the transport network in East Africa and promote integration and Sino-Africa relationship. We will keep treasuring this early achievement in BRI," he said.
Atanas Maina, managing director of Kenya Railways, spoke about the cooperation between Chinese and Kenyans to deliver a modern transport network despite challenges. "There is no better evidence that China-Kenya relationship is steady," said Maina.
<em>Lucymorangi@chinadaily.com.cn</em>
