Murders of Chinese in South Africa condemned - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Chinese embassy in South Africa has strongly condemned a spate of violent crimes, including murder, against Chinese citizens in the country, and called for swift investigations that bring the offenders to justice as soon as possible.
Seven Chinese have been killed in the country over the past 50 days, according to a statement by the Chinese embassy on Monday that notes Chinese have been targeted for murder, robberies and kidnapping.
The statement highlighted the case of Zhong Zhiwei and his wife Hua Xuejie, who were shot dead by bandits in Johannesburg on the afternoon of Aug 13. Zhong was the chairman of the Shandong Province Overseas Association of Southern Africa.
The murders have shocked the Chinese community in South Africa, causing great indignation among Chinese both at home and abroad. The community has circulated a petition calling on the South African government to find the murderers quickly and bring them to justice.
The embassy has shown great concern, strongly condemned the criminal behaviors, and expressed deep condolences to the families of the victims, said the statement.
The embassy immediately contacted police offering its assistance in the investigations, and lodged solemn representations with the South African government on the recent violence against Chinese people. It urged the government to mobilize all its manpower and resources in carrying out the investigations.
Li Nan, charge d'affaires of the Chinese embassy in South Africa, called for effective measures to protect the rights and interests of Chinese nationals and institutions, as the two countries have maintained a close relationship with frequent exchanges.
<strong>Highest priority</strong>
The embassy also advised overseas Chinese in South Africa to pay close attention to the country's deteriorating security, worsened by the coronavirus pandemic. Measures to curb the spread of the virus have slowed the country's economic growth and exacerbated unemployment.
Khehla Sitole, the national commissioner of the South African Police Service, said the police have attached the highest priority to investigating the crimes, and will update the embassy on progress in the cases.
Sitole sent his condolences to the victims of crimes and to the relatives of those killed. He also expressed gratitude for the great contributions that the Chinese community has made to the social and economic development of South Africa over the years.
So far, four out of seven cases have been solved, and 10 suspects arrested.
