Partnership with China key for Africa to realize development goals - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
As Africa gears toward realization of its economic development goals, its partnership with China remains critical, say experts, scholars and government officials from both parties.
More than 300 participants gathered at the African Union (AU) headquarters in Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa on Dec 6-7, 2019 to deliberate on how Africa and China can jointly promote sustainable development, reiterated their committed to enhancing the two parties' partnership.
African leaders acknowledged that China can play a critical role in helping the continent to realize its United Nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development and agenda 2063, a 50- year development blueprint of the African Union.
Chinese officials pledged China's continued support towards- enabling Africa to realize its development agendas.
Arkebe Oqubay, the senior minister and adviser to the Ethiopian prime minister, refuted the narrative by the Western world that China is trying to colonize Africa.
"China is a country that has suffered colonialism by Japan as well as the British, so, it cannot be associated with new colonialism. This allegation is not coming from Africans or their leaders but elsewhere. It's not a correct narrative," Oqubay said.
He said a constructive narrative is that China-Africa cooperation has been based on basic principles of win-win, mutual respect and the principle of non-interference, which has been able to give it a solid base.
Oqubay said one of the key results of the cooperation is the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, which has become the largest south-south cooperation platform.
He said trade between the two parties increased from $10 billion in 2000 to $220 billion in 2014; a more than 20-fold growth.
"China is now among the major sources of finance for infrastructure development globally, and Africa has had the access to more than $130 billion in the last 20 years," he said.
Oqubay called on China to increase foreign direct investment to Africa as well as invest in the continent's manufacturing sector to create more job opportunities.
Albert Muchanga, the AU commissioner for Trade and Industry, said the strengthened relationship between China and Africa is evident through FOCAC, which has been playing a pertinent role in human resource development and capacity building for African countries.
He said tangible results have been experienced in educational infrastructure, talent development, introduction of agro-technology to improve food security in the continent and enhancement of Africa's health sector.
Muchanga said with the operationalization of the African Continental Free Trade Area or AfCFT, the BRI offers great opportunity for Africa to develop its gigantic infrastructure projects.
This is in addition to building transport networks that link African countries to simplify trade.
"African countries have started benefiting from the initiative as evidenced by the Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway, which is also expected to expand to Uganda and beyond," he said.
With the potential of a fourth industrial revolution in Africa, Muchanga said great lessons can be learned from China that can lead to creation of economic opportunities for youth and women.
Noting that Africa is endowed with natural resources, he said partnerships with the Chinese private sector through co-investment is critical to develop the continent's industrial capacities.
Liu Yuxi, ambassador and the head of the Chinese Mission to AU, said China will continue to support Africa to improve its infrastructure, education and employment among others.
He said Africa should avoid the model of development that is based on exportation of natural resources.
"China will spare no effort to help Africa deal with its challenges and realize sustainable development," he said.
Xie Fuzhan, the president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said despite the chaotic international situation, China and Africa have been able to counter global development challenges, shaping international development momentum, and building an inclusive and integrated development governance structure.
He said the two parties should strengthen their strategic partnership, solve development challenges, strengthen exchanges and mutual learning.
"We are ready to share our expertise through promoting commercial exchanges and investment," he said.
Xie said China and Africa should make good use of the opportunities within FOCAC and continue working together to create a link between BRI and Agendas 2030 and 2063.
“We also have to put in place the eight actions that were highlighted in the 2018 Beijing summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation or FOCAC and strengthen the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two parties,” he said.
The participants in the two-day summit were drawn from international organizations including Chinese and African major research institutions, scholars, government officials, business executives, media personnel and African Union attended the seminar.
