China trade week kicks off in Nairobi - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The fifth edition of China Trade Week (CTW) Kenya kicked off on Wednesday, with high expectation of signing of deals between Chinese and Kenyan traders.
Organized by MIE Group, a Dubai- and China-based consultancy, the trade show is the biggest business-to-business event in Kenya. More than 500 Chinese exhibitors and over 30,000 visitors are expected to attend the trade show.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Eugene Wamalwa, the cabinet secretary in the Ministry of Devolution and Planning, said the CTW presents a good platform for Kenyan and Chinese traders to exchange ideas as well as enhance the relationship between the two countries.
Wamalwa invited Chinese investors to take advantage of the numerous opportunities in the country, noting that Kenya has changed some of its laws to make the business environment more conducive.
Pius Rotich, the general manager of Kenya Investment Authority (KenInvest), thanked the MIE Group for launching a platform to connect Chinese and Kenyan traders.
Rotich said KenInvest is committed to facilitating investors to venture in the country, noting that Kenya is committed to improving its business environment with a target of being listed among the top 50 countries in the next two years.
He said through Kenya investors can access the European Union market of 500 million people, United States of America market through the African Growth and Opportunity Act of 500 million people as well as the entire African market of almost 1 billion people through the Continental Free Trade Area.
Charles Mudiwa, the CEO of Stanbic Bank, said his institution has a strong Chinese connection by the fact that the ICBC Bank is its biggest shareholder.
"Stanbic collaborated with ICBC Bank to provide a deep understanding of African business and the Chinese market and be able to facilitate the collaboration and meet business aspirations of both the Chinese and Kenyan business people," he said.
Mudiwa said Stanbic was proud to be associated with the CTW as well as help bring the Chinese and Kenyan businesses together.
Charles Kahuthu, the CEO of East Africa Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, encouraged Chinese investors to confidently invest in the region where they are assured of accessing a market of 160 million people.
He said Kenya is a very important entry point not only to the region but also to the continent, because it has skilled labor force.
