CI at Kenyatta University celebrates the New Year - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
On the eve of the Chinese Lunar New Year, guests of the Confucius Institute at Kenyatta University were treated to performances presented by the students from the CI.
In addition, performances were presented by teaching posts' students from Rusinga Schools, Ruiru Fairview Academy, Bristar Girls High School, and United States International University (USIU).
The performances included lion dances, the descendants of dragon, Jing Hong dance and several songs.
In addition to the students, two students from China, Wang Sen and Yu Haitao, treated the guests to martial art performances. The guests also had the opportunity to learn about some of the Chinese cultural activities like the use of chop sticks, painting and writing Chinese characters.
Professor Li Qiang, the Chinese director at the Kenyatta University Confucius Institute, said that the Chinese Spring Festival is a very important season for Chinese people and it's usually characterized by cooking different types of food, the exchanging of gifts and shopping.
"This is mainly a family festival and family members try their best to travel home for family reunion," he said.
Speaking about the Confucius Institute's achievements, Li noted that it launched a diploma program in 2016 and that plans are underway to launch a degree program.
"Students will now be able to pursue their degree programs here at Kenyatta University on Chinese courses instead of having to travel to China," he said.
Dr Kamau Wango, the local director of CI at Kenyatta University said, it will continue to make sure that it meets the mandate as expected by the university, their Chinese partner university, Shandong Normal University, and CI headquarters.
"Whenever we get an opportunity, we usually hold meetings with our partner university to make sure that our relationship continues to grow stronger," he said.
In addition to teaching Chinese language and culture, as their key mandate, Wango says the CI also is required to make sure that there is a robust relationship between China and Kenya. ``That's why we have to work closely with the media and the Chinese embassy in Kenya," he said.
The CI at KU have one Confucius Classroom and five teaching posts. Rusinga Schools became a teaching post of Confucius Institute at Kenyatta University in 2012, and became the first Confucius Classroom of CI at KU in 2016.
In 2013, CI at KU established a teaching post in Strathmore University. In the same year, it also established a teaching post in Brookhouse School, followed by establishment of a teaching post in USIU and Ruiru Fairview Academy in 2015 and 2016 respectively. Another teaching post was established at Bristar Girls School in 2017.
edithmutethya@chinadaily.com.cn
