CPC to dialogue with political parties in Africa - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Communist Party of China is going to enhance communication with some influential political parties in Africa as part of its effort to engage with such voices around the world.
Chinese president Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the CPC, called for institutionalized dialogue between the CPC and the world's high-level political parties at the Dialogue with World Political Parties High-Level Meeting in Beijing last year.
Xi said in a keynote speech that the proposal to build a community with a shared future for mankind and a better world together should have institutionalized high-level dialogue meetings, and must involve opening a new chapter of exchanges between the CPC and political parties no matter where they may be.
The Party will hold the CPC in Dialogue with World Political Parties High-Level Meeting Africa Thematic Event from July 17 to 18 in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, taking the initiative in institutionalizing high-level dialogue and deepening cooperation between China and Africa.
With the theme of Theories and Practices of Chinese and African Political Parties in Exploring Development Paths Suitable to National Situations, the event has invited over 40 parties in about 40 African countries.
This year marks the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up. The country is now undertaking a new round of reform and opening-up and striving to realize the goal of building modernized and strong socialism.
As one of the fastest growing and most promising regions in the world economy, Africa is committed to realizing economic emancipation and actively exploring the path of independent modernization.
During the event, the CPC and participating African political parties will carry out in-depth dialogue and exchanges on topics including "development tasks and choices of paths of China and Africa", "opportunities and challenges in China-Africa cooperation" and "the role of political parties in promoting national development and China-Africa cooperation", seeking to inspire all parties to explore paths of modernization and development.
The event will also set up a foundation for the China-Africa Cooperation Summit scheduled for September in Beijing as a platform to deepen cooperation and build comprehensive strategic partnerships in the new era.
