Rwanda inaugurates Chinese-built administrative office complex - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Rwandan government on Monday inaugurated its new, Chinese-built administrative office complex in the capital, Kigali.
The $27 million multi-story complex, with about 16,000 square meters of floor space and funded by China, will be the site of the prime minister's office and other Rwandan government offices.
Rwandan Prime Minister Edouard Ngirente described the inauguration ceremony as an historic occasion and another indicator of the growing relationship between China and Rwanda.
"This new administrative office complex will cement the good existing ties between China and Rwanda," Ngirente said. "The complex will enable the staff of the prime minister's office and those from other public institutions to deliver quality, fast and effective services to the public."
According to Ngirente, Rwanda has taken on a new look, with sound governance, vitality, political stability and sustained socio-economic development, as well as growing regional and global influence.
Zheng Jianbang, the visiting vice-chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, was present to witness the event.
Zheng commended the diligent workers from both China and Rwanda for the completion of the project, saying it was a great pleasure to witness the handover ceremony of the office complex.
"The completion of the complex is inspiring. But what inspires me even more is the rapid growth of China-Rwanda relations," he said.
Zheng said China stands ready to join hands with Rwanda, step up efforts to deliver on the important understandings reached between President Xi Jinping and his Rwandan counterpart, President Paul Kagame, during the former's visit to Rwanda, and implement the outcomes of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation Beijing Summit.
He hailed Rwanda for its achievements over the past 25 years.
The new complex will help the Rwandan government cut office rent expenditures, Claver Gatete, Rwanda's minister of infrastructure, told journalists in Kigali.
In the past decade, the Rwandan government has spent more than $4.4 million to rent offices for about 30 public institutions.
The complex is expected to be occupied next month.
Zheng, who led a delegation of 14 Chinese officials, arrived in Rwanda on Sunday for a four-day visit.
