China-Africa cooperation to focus on continent's self-development - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Cooperation between China and Africa will focus on taking creative approaches to improve the continent's capacity for self-development, Assistant Foreign Minister Chen Xiaodong has said.
China is willing to work with African countries to dovetail the Belt and Road Initiative and the African Union's Agenda 2063, as well as development strategies of African countries, Chen said on Monday at the opening ceremony of the eighth Meeting of the China-Africa Think Tanks Forum.
The two-day forum gathered over 400 diplomats, government officials, scholars and media representatives from China and Africa for discussion on implementing follow-up actions of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation.
China would like to work with Africa to take targeted, as well as inclusive, measures to implement a number of high-standard, sustainable projects that will benefit people from both sides, Chen said.
He added that China attaches great importance to debt sustainability in Africa and seeks mutually beneficial solutions through friendly consultations.
According to Chen, 44 African countries have signed cooperation agreements with China on the BRI.
According to statistics from China Customs, trade volume between China and Africa exceeded $200 billion. China has been the continent's largest trade partner for 10 consecutive years.
The BRI is in complete harmony with the AU Agenda 2063 as it is also based on the concept of peaceful corporation, openness and mutual benefit, said Rahamtalla M. Osman, head of the AU Mission to China.
"It also aims to improve global governance and the globalization process, while providing equal opportunities for all to achieve prosperity", he said.
The Africa-China partnership delivered concrete outcomes that are beneficial to Africa in the areas of peace and security, infrastructure, trade and investment, and the BRI will act as a driving force for Africa's development, he added.
Ruan Zongze, vice-president of the China Institute of International Studies, said the achievements of China-Africa cooperation are not only weighed by the increase of annual trade volume, but also reflected in the favorability between their people.
Cooperation between think tanks from both sides should serve the BRI and the common development of China and Africa, and help strengthen mutual understandings and friendship between people from both sides, he added.
