China pledges to work with Zambia to implement FOCAC summit outcomes - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
LUSAKA - The Chinese government on Friday said it was committed to working with Zambia authorities in ensuring that the southern African nation takes opportunities from the 2018 Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) summit and implements the outcomes.
Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Li Jie said China was ready to tap into the cooperation potential of the two countries under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative and the FOCAC.
In remarks delivered at a reception to mark the 69th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese envoy said China was committed to giving full play to the three advantages of the traditional friendship, economic complementarity and people-to-people mutual understanding and constantly opening up new prospects for win-win cooperation and common development between the two countries.
This, he said, will be achieved through the two countries working together to deepen political mutual trust and maintain the momentum of high-level visits.
"China is ready to work with Zambia to uphold the fine tradition of friendship and cooperation, promote bilateral ties in a strategic and long-term perspective, and continue to show mutual understanding and support each other on issues concerning the core interests and major concerns of the two countries," he said.
China, he added, will continue to support Zambia's industrialization and agricultural modernization process as well as increase Zambia's exports to China.
Nkandu Luo, Zambia's Minister of Higher Education, said Zambia values the long-standing historical relation that has existed between the two countries premised on friendship, equality and mutual respect.
According to her, the eight initiatives that emanated from the FOCAC summit will assist Zambia in the attainment of its five-year development plan and was looking forward to the implementation of joint projects between the two countries.
"I am confident that Zambia and China will continue to augment the already strong ties of friendship that have existed between our two countries." she added.
