Morocco, China vow to promote strategic partnership - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
RABAT - Morocco and China have pledged to promote their strategic partnership through enhancing mutual exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
The two sides made the pledge at a meeting held on Monday between Moroccan Prime Minister Saadeddine El Othmani, also secretary general of the Justice and Development Party, and You Quan, head of the United Front Work Department of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee.
You Quan, also a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, hailed the healthy and steady development of the Sino-Moroccan relationship in the past 60 years since the establishment of the diplomatic ties in 1958.
He said that China is willing to work together with Morocco to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state to solidify mutual political trust, deepen mutually beneficiary cooperation and jointly push forward the construction of the Belt and Road Initiative, which was proposed in 2013 by China.
These efforts will be made under the guidance of the proposal put forward by Chinese President Xi Jinping to build a community with a shared future for mankind, and the principles of China's Africa policy featuring sincerity, practical results, affinity and good faith, the Chinese official said.
He added that the CPC is willing to enhance the exchanges and cooperation with the Justice and Development Party to elevate the Sino-Moroccan strategic partnership to a higher level.
For his part, Othmani said that the visit to China in 2016 by Moroccan King Mohammed VI ushered in a new era of the development of the Sino-Moroccan relationship.
Morocco congratulates the Chinese people on the great achievements gained in national development under the CPC leadership, Othmani said, adding that Rabat is willing to actively participate in the construction of the Belt and Road Initiative so to achieve common development with China.
He added that the Justice and Development Party treasures its friendship with the CPC, and is willing to increase mutual exchanges and learn from each other so as to constantly enrich the content of the Sino-Moroccan strategic partnership.
You Quan led a Chinese delegation that visited Morocco from July 7-10.
&nbsp;
