Kenyan University holds 3rd Confucius Institute Chinese song contest - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Confucius Institute at Kenyatta University in Kenya held the third Voice of Kenya Chinese Singing Competition on Wednesday at the newly-constructed China Center. The event, which attracted three participants from Egerton University, saw both lecturers and students perform a colorful and entertaining display of Chinese and Kenyan cultures.
There was stiff competition among the 16 contestants who brought out their best to prove to the judges that they had what it takes to take home the winner's trophy. After careful deliberations backed by a vote from the audience, the judges settled on Nyambura Githaiga as the overall winner. Githaiga held the audience spellbound with her powerful rendition of Variations of Mayra, a well delivered operatic piece that earned her a standing ovation.
In her opening remarks, Hellen Kiarie, local director of the Confucius Institute at Kenyatta University, hailed the spirit of give and take that has been promoted through cultural exchange activities like the annual Chinese song contest.
"We are providing a platform for our students to be able to learn the Chinese language, explore their culture and reciprocate by exposing them to our culture as well. Remember music, is a powerful tool for communication, so this competition not only nurtures talents but also helps our two cultures communicate," Kiarie said.
There was a tie for second place, with Joy Ndanu shared the honors with <em>Valerie Njeri</em>. All participants were awarded certificates of participation.
"I am glad to be studying the Chinese language because currently, most African countries are doing a lot of business with China and most products coming to our country come from there. By studying their language, I will be able to communicate easily with the Chinese and this increases my competitiveness since more Chinese businessmen are interested in Africa," said Ndanu, who came in second in the competition.
As the event drew to a close, invited guests took to the stage to present awards, prizes and certificates to the participants. Li Jing, the Chinese director of the Confucius Institute at Kenyatta University, delivered closing remarks by congratulating the event's organizers for making the day a success. She also thanked the Confucius Institute at Egerton University for sending representatives and urged more collaboration between the two institutes.
More African youth and budding entrepreneurs are studying Chinese in the hope the language will open up new opportunities. According to the Chinese Language Council (Hanban) there are 61 Confucius Institutes in Africa, with South Africa having the most at six, followed by Kenya, which has four.
Otiato Opali in Nairobi contributed to this story.
