Xi welcomes Zimbabwean leader - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>West urged to thaw ties with African nation</strong>
China is hopeful Western countries will improve relations with Zimbabwe and work toward the country's development, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday.
Xi made the remark while meeting with visiting Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
Witnessed by the two presidents, China and Zimbabwe signed cooperation agreements covering such areas as economy, technology, agriculture and human resources.
The two leaders also agreed to upgrade the bilateral relations to comprehensive strategic cooperation partnership.
Noting that China and Zimbabwe are all-weather friends, Xi said the two countries have always supported each other in the past, no matter how international relations changed.
The two countries should continue high-level exchanges, draw the blueprint for cooperation in all areas and keep supporting each other on issues related to core interests and major concerns, Xi said.
The two sides should enhance strategic interconnection, deepen cooperation under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative and continue to cooperate in such areas as infrastructure, agriculture and finance, Xi said.
In November, Zimbabwe's transition won wide recognition from the international community, Xi said.
Since the inauguration as Zimbabwe's president, Mnangagwa has been dedicated to developing the economy and improving people's lives, Xi said, adding that new policies resulted in positive outcomes for Zimbabwe.
As a friend, partner and brother of Zimbabwe, China is glad to see the Zimbabwean people have benefited from the country's new policies.
Noting that there are new opportunities for the development of China-Zimbabwe relations, Xi said he would like to make joint efforts with Mnangagwa to draw a new blueprint of bilateral relations and bring more benefits for the people of both sides.
Xi expressed gratitude for Mnangagwa's congratulatory message on his re-election as president of China at the session of the country's top legislature last month.
Xi said he appreciated his Zimbabwean counterpart's efforts in pushing bilateral cooperation in all areas in the past years.
Mnangagwa, speaking highly of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, said he hoped to develop socialism with Zimbabwean characteristics in his country.
Chen Xiaodong, assistant minister of foreign affairs, said that Zimbabwe agreed during the talks between the two leaders to issue visas upon arrival for Chinese visitors.
