Gates' letter notes China's contributions to Africa - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Bill and Melinda Gates, co-chairs of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, released their 2019 annual letter on Tuesday evening, which emphasizes the significance of investing in and empowering young Africans.
With a look back at 2018, the letter lists nine surprises that have brought either concerns or inspiration, including the great potential of at-home DNA tests, the role of agriculture and manufacturing in climate change, and the languid pace of toilet development.
At the top of the list is the fact that the number of young Africans is expected to rise in the coming decades while the global population keeps aging.
"Young Africans will shape the future of not only their own communities but the entire world," Bill Gates said in the letter.
The letter adds that the continent's future depends on young people's access to high-quality health and education services, and prods "right investments that will unlock its enormous potential."
China, a long-standing friend with African countries, will remain a major force in contributing to the security and development of the continent by sharing its expertise in solving health and poverty challenges at scale, according to Li Yinuo, director of the foundation's China office.
"No country has ever accomplished what China has achieved in the last few decades — breaking the relentless cycle of poverty and disease for hundreds of millions of people while modernizing its economy and driving global health and development outcomes," she said.
She added that the foundation is working with partners from the public and private sectors to accelerate the entry of low-cost, effective, Chinese-made malaria commodities into African countries.
In a separate video released by Xinhua News Agency on Wednesday, where Bill Gates sent a belated Chinese New Year greeting, he said China is stepping up its efforts to help solve tough challenges in the rest of the world.
He reflected on his journey to China last year that revealed the country's valuable experiences in strengthening health systems, controlling deadly disease and improving agriculture transformation.
"I believe in China's ability to help hundreds of millions of young people in the world's poorest countries to feel their potential," he said.
&nbsp;
Link to the 2019 annual letter: <br><a href="https://www.gatesnotes.com/media/AL2019/PDFs/2019AnnualLetter-EN.pdf">https://www.gatesnotes.com/media/AL2019/PDFs/2019AnnualLetter-EN.pdf</a>
