Relief for disabled students in Kenya as Chinese company comes to their aid - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Parents, students, teachers and locals at Kanaani Integrated Primary School and Kanaani High School were elated after representatives from Seven Sunday Ltd, a Chinese manufacturer operating in Kenya, paid them a visit on Tuesday to offer support to schools whose students include children living with a disability.
In an event that was attended by representatives from the national government, the county government of Machakos and the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, Seven Sunday, which has built a reputable name as an insulation manufacturer in Kenya, donated food, including corn, beans and rice, as well as other foodstuffs to serve Kanaani Integrated Primary School students lunch.
Seven Sunday committed to fixing roof insulators in six classrooms at the primary school, in addition to donating 100 pieces of carpet to be used to enhance the comfort of disabled students in younger classes.
According to Esther Musila, the primary school’s principal, the intervention could not have come at a better time because the school has been struggling to make school life easier for the disabled students, a situation that has been made worse by the coronavirus pandemic.
"We not only deal with disabled children but also children coming from very poor backgrounds. Sometimes as teachers, we have had to dig into our own pockets to provide necessities, like food for the students, and that is why we appreciate the help," Musila said.
In addition, Seven Sunday also offered to sponsor orphaned students at the high school by paying school fees and offering training and employment opportunities after they complete their final year of high school.
Kennedy Kidili, the Seven Sunday general manager, said that as it is the company’s first year of operation in Kenya, they saw it fit to start by earmarking a needy school that they can support as they continue to work with local communities to eradicate poverty and improve lives.
"This is just the beginning and we intend to identify a number of schools in Machakos County that we can work with for a start. We intend to expand the collaboration beyond the county as we expand and grow," Kidili said.
While addressing the gathering, Lazarus Kivuva, the cabinet secretary for trade in Machakos County, thanked Seven Sunday for not only investing in Machakos County through their factory but also going the extra mile and extending a helping hand to needy students within the county.
"By offering this help, you have touched real lives since we can only change the future of our children through education. At the county office, we are ready to work with you and identify ways in which we can collaborate to develop our trade, create jobs and support our people," Kivuva said.
