Burundi thanks China for assistance - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Burundi appreciated China's assistance to help combat the COVID-19 pandemic and expected to enhance cooperation with Beijing to safeguard the health of its people, the African country's top envoy in Beijing said.
In Burundi, there are 19 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with one death as of Sunday, according to the World Health Organization.
"China is allied in the foreground to assist other countries attacked by this epidemic," Martin Mbazumutima, Burundi's ambassador to China, told China Daily in a written interview.
According to him, Burundi obtained medical equipment offered by the Chinese government and also received, with many other African countries, a donation of prevention equipment that was granted by the Jack Ma Foundation.
"We thank China for this assistance, which is part of China-Burundi relations and that of international solidarity," he said.
The epidemic situation in China has improved as the rate at which the novel coronavirus is spreading in the country continues to slow.
The measures taken by China over the past months have effectively protected its population, the ambassador said.
Hospitals in China have done a remarkable job and the special treatment that combines Western medicine and traditional Chinese medicine has proved effective, he added.
"We must salute and congratulate the Chinese government for the results already achieved, even if there is a necessity to remain vigilant for cases of contamination from other countries at this time," he said.
The ambassador noted that China's experience in dealing with the epidemic is part of humanity's expertise.
The way that China is fighting against COVID-19 should be a source of inspiration for other countries, he said.
International solidarity, the ambassador stressed, is necessary to fight and overcome the pandemic.
He noted that the world is like a village where everyone moves and rubs shoulders, and the outbreak cannot be eradicated by a single country.
The lack of technical capacity or sufficient medicines can only be overcome through international solidarity and mutual support, he added.
Burundi hopes to enhance cooperation with China in the exchange of information and know-how, and support each other in scientific and technological research to jointly fight the virus and safeguard the health of populations in general, he said.
