Beijing a model for S. Africa, Zuma says - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
 
South African President Jacob Zuma said that his country hopes to learn from China's governance experience to achieve more rapid development for South Africa. 
Zuma made the remark while meeting with visiting Chinese Vice-Premier Liu Yandong at the president's residence in Pretoria on Tuesday. 
Zuma asked Liu to extend his sincere greetings to President Xi Jinping. Zuma said he is glad to see the quick implementation of the consensus reached between the two presidents on the establishment of the China-South Africa High-Level People to People Exchange Mechanism. 
The exchange covers areas like education, culture, science and technology, health, youth, women, news media, think tanks, tourism and sports. 
On Monday, Liu attended the first meeting of the group overseeing the exchanges. Xi said in a congratulatory letter that the exchange is the first high-level dialogue between China and any African country to push people-to-people and cultural interaction. 
The start of the exchange process will provide more opportunities for the people of both countries to participate in the development of South Africa-China relations and enjoy the benefits of the development of ties, Zuma said. 
South Africa will never forget China's support during the country's anti-segregation fight, Zuma said, while expressing his wish to speed up his country's development through deepening ties with China. 
Zuma said he appreciated China's constructive role in safeguarding international peace and security, and he spoke highly of China's contribution to global economic development. 
Liu extended Xi's best wishes to Zuma, and she said that the China-South Africa relationship is at its highest point under the leadership of the two presidents. 
The two countries have deepened political trust, achieved results in practical cooperation and supported each others' core interests and major concerns, Liu said. 
She said comprehensive strategic cooperation in areas like production capacity, energy, resources and infrastructure will benefit both peoples. 
Liu noted that both nations are important parts of the G20 and BRICS associations, and added that China hopes to enhance communication with South Africa in international affairs to safeguard the interests of developing countries. 
Contact the writers at anbaijie@chinadaily.com.cn 
