Xi pledges to deepen practical cooperation between China, South Africa - Chinadaily.com.cn
OSAKA, Japan - Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged here on Friday to keep deepening political mutual trust and practical cooperation between his country and South Africa.
Xi made the remarks when meeting with his South African counterpart, Cyril Ramaphosa, on the sidelines of a summit of the Group of 20 (G20) major economies held in the Japanese city of Osaka.
Xi called on China and South Africa to keep supporting each other on issues of their respective core interests and major concern, strengthen the alignment of the Belt and Road Initiative and eight major initiatives agreed at the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on the China-Africa Cooperation, with a five-year action plan of the South African government.
He urged the two countries to deepen cooperation in such areas as production capacity, infrastructure construction, human resource development, digital economy, and high and new technology.
China, Xi said, is willing to share experience with South Africa on eliminating poverty and others, and support the African country in achieving its development goals.
Xi pointed out that both China and South Africa are major developing countries.
China is ready to strengthen communication and coordination with South Africa to jointly safeguard multilateralism, international fairness and justice, as well as the common interests of developing countries including China and South Africa, Xi said.
Ramaphosa delivered congratulations on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, and wished the country even greater achievements in its development.
South Africa values its comprehensive strategic partnership with China, appreciates China's precious and long-term support, and is willing to enhance exchanges of experience in governance with China and closely align its development with the joint construction of the Belt and Road.
South Africa advocates as well that countries should treat one another on an equal footing and respect each other, he said.
South Africa is opposed to unilateralism and bullying behaviors in international trade, and supports China to safeguard its legitimate rights and interests, he said.
South Africa welcomes and supports Chinese companies including Huawei to invest and operate in the country, and is ready to intensify communication and coordination with China within such multilateral frameworks as the G20 and BRICS, he said.
