Colorful Chinese celebrations promote mutual understanding - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Fireworks lit Johannesburg's night sky on Saturday for about half an hour as the Chinese community ushered in the Year of the Dog.
A huge crowd gathered in the city's first Chinatown, to join in the colorful celebrations that showcased Chinese culture.
The crowd cheered as firecrackers and fireworks went off, symbolizing the chasing away of evil spirits. Traditional foods, such as sticky rice, chicken, and noodles, were served by several Chinese restaurants that had set up stalls along the street. Dragon and lion dancers entertained the crowd while Chinese locals explained their importance.
The consulate general of the Chinese embassy in Johannesburg, Ruan Ping said the Year of the Dog represents loyalty and honesty, key characteristics that will underscore China-South Africa relations.
"This year we are observing 20 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. A series of events have been planned by both countries to promote culture and people-to-people understanding, that we believe will solidify our mutual relations," he said.
Ruan said there are exciting times ahead as the African nation prepares to host the 10th BRICS summit in July, while Beijing is expected to host the Forum On China-Africa Corporation in the second half of the year.
"I hope this year will bring prosperity, good fortune, health and happiness to the two nations," he said.
On his part, Erwin Pon, the chairman of the Chinese Association of Gauteng, said the celebration is an avenue to promote cultural values esteemed by the local Chinese community. "We hope that other cultures will understand our values and thus strengthen our engagement economically and socially."
Erwin is happy that the introduction of Chinese language in most schools will accelerate cultural understanding in the country that is home to about 250,000 Chinese. The association has actively come out to advocate for tolerance and understanding between the different cultures in the country.
This Spring Festival celebration was the second of a series of events planned to celebrate the new year in South Africa. The next is scheduled for 3 March at Cyrildene, Johannesburg's biggest Chinatown.
