Kenya to increase exports to China - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Kenya will participate in the first China-Africa Economic and Trade Forum to be held this month in China, the cabinet secretary of trade and cooperatives, Peter Munya, announced on Wednesday in Nairobi.
The forum is scheduled to run from 27 to 29 in the city of Changsha in Hunan province. The theme - "Win-Win Cooperation for Closer China-Africa Economic Partnership'' - will focus on trade and investment promotion, agriculture, energy and power, industrial park development, infrastructure and financing cooperation.
Munya said he will lead a trade delegation in signing various memorandums of understanding (MoU) to anchor Kenya's exportable products in the Chinese market.
The Kenya Flower Council will sign an MoU with Funfree International Trade Co Ltd to expand flower exports to China.
This will be a game changer. Entry of Kenyan flowers into Changsha, also known as the flower city, will follow on the recent launch of direct flights linking the Hunan capital to Nairobi by China Southern Airlines. This week, a total of 2,760 fresh-cut roses were received and samples taken for testing to ensure safety of the flowers, according to Xinhua News Agency. Previously, Kenyan flowers took at least three days to arrive in Changsha.
Other MoUs expected to be signed include one by the Export Promotion Council, a government agency, with China-Africa E-Commerce Co Ltd for an online country exhibition center to promote Kenyan goods and services in China. Another one will be with Shanghai Green Chain Information Science and Technology Ltd to strengthen links with China's retail market.
The CS also announced that Kenya was participating in the ongoing International Horticulture Expo in Beijing where it is promoting agriculture trade and investment, tourism, sports and culture.
Kenya is expected to host the Kenya Day between Sept 2-6 when a trade, tourism and investment forum will be held to enhance the partnership between Kenya exporters, Chinese and world buyers.
The Beijing expo has 110 participating countries and expects 16 million buyers to visit the expo within six months. "Kenya hopes to bag the most exports as well as investment deals," said Munya.
