Support for Africa's goals reaffirmed - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>Wang Yi stresses cooperation from China to aid development ambitions</strong>
China is committed to building a consensus for solidarity and cooperation with Africa while working together with nations for a peaceful and prosperous continent, said State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi.
Wang made the comments on Friday at the United Nations Security Council High-level Debate on "Cooperation between the United Nations and Regional and Sub-regional Organizations with a Specific Focus on the United Nations and the African Union".
The virtual event was convened by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, whose country holds the presidency of the Security Council for December.
In his remarks, Wang said that China supported South Africa's initiative of convening the high-level debate and welcomed Ramaphosa's chairing of the meeting.
"The COVID-19 pandemic has evolved into an exacerbated global crisis, exerting profound political, economic and social impacts on African countries, and posing a litany of new challenges to peace and security of the continent," Wang said.
He said the United Nations is duty-bound to take active measures to help Africa weather the storm. Wang stressed that China's efforts to support Africa in surmounting these challenges should focus on a united fight against COVID-19 as well as achieving the African Union's "Silencing the Guns" initiative and delivering on the AU's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development while promoting fairness and justice.
"China stands as a true friend of African countries and a partner with common purpose," he said. "Guided by the principle of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith, China has put the greater good of African countries above its own interests. We are always ready to play a part as the African people pursue the great dream of development and rejuvenation of their continent."
He highlighted how China held an Extraordinary China-Africa Summit on Solidarity Against COVID-19 in June under an initiative by President Xi Jinping. To uphold Africa's peace and security, China is following through on its pledged free military assistance worth $100 million to the AU and has extended military aid to the Joint Force of the G5 Sahel via bilateral and multilateral channels.
<strong>Peacekeeping operations</strong>
"More than 2,100 Chinese peacekeepers are serving in six UN peacekeeping operations in Africa," Wang said. "To promote Africa's prosperity and development, China has worked with Africa to formulate and implement the 10 cooperation plans and the eight major initiatives. Across Africa, China has helped with the construction of over 6,000 kilometers of railways, more than 6,000 kilometers of roads, nearly 20 ports and 80 plus large-scale power plants."
In opening the meeting, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres stressed that the partnership between the UN, the AU and African regional economic mechanisms has never been stronger.
"Our partnership is anchored in the principles of complementarity, respect for African leadership and the certainty that no one organization or state can face problems alone," Guterres said.
"As well, the United Nations is supporting the initiative of Silencing the Guns in many concrete ways, including capacity building for mediation and disarmament, partnership in creating the network of African women leaders and investment in young people."
Moussa Faki Mahamat, the chairperson of the African Union Commission, said that cooperation between the UN and the AU is a prerequisite for the implementation of their mandates to promote international peace and security.
