Global energy conference to be held in Beijing - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The 2019 Global Energy Interconnection & China-Africa Energy and Power Conference, to be held in Beijing from November 4 to 7, has attracted more than 600 representatives from more than 60 countries and regions on five continents, its organizer announced on Wednesday in Beijing.
The representatives are mainly officials from government and international organization officials, managers of enterprises, and university scholars.
Its organizer Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization (GEIDCO) said this conference is expected to bring the development of global energy interconnection (GEI) to new highs and present good opportunities for African countries to achieve sustainable development.
The two-day event, at the China National Convention Center, will focus on two themes of Global Energy Interconnection -- A Road of Green, Low-carbon and Sustainable Development and African Energy Interconnection -- New Growth Driver of Africa, and will consist of keynote speeches, panel discussions, release of research reports, and a signing ceremony of cooperation agreements.
In addition to plenary meetings, a number of thematic forums will be held in parallel to discuss the topics of clean energy development, economic and social development, electrification and industrialization development in Africa, co-development of electricity, mining, metallurgy, manufacturing and trade, power interconnection, and investment and financing.
More than 10 ministerial officials from energy ministries and ambassadors of African countries to China, more than 70 senior representatives from international organizations, heads of corporations, institutions, academicians, and fellows will give speeches or join the panel discussions.
During the event, GEIDCO will release two reports, namely African Energy Interconnection and Co-development of Electricity, Mining, Metallurgy, Manufacturing and Trade and Study on Congo River Hydropower Development and Outward Transmission, and sign multiple cooperation agreements.
Moreover, the conference will also hold a GEI technology and equipment exhibition to provide a platform for exchange and cooperation and promote project investment negotiation. With an exhibition area of more than 1,000 square meters, this exhibition will fully showcase the latest achievements and innovations in clean and green development, GEI development and other aspects.
Before the conference, African guests will go to Shanghai and Yichang, Sichuan province, to visit ultra-high-voltage electricity transmission substations and the Three Gorges Dam from November 4-5.
During the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), GEIDCO held a thematic meeting in which it put forward ideas for the development of African Energy Interconnection and released a planning report, providing a package of solutions to Africa's clean energy development, industrialization, electrification and economic integration.
In order to develop a multilateral mechanism and a cooperation platform to promote the development of clean energy and power interconnection in Africa, GEIDCO and the Guinean government jointly proposed to establish African Energy Interconnection and Sustainable Development Alliance (AEISDA). At present, more than 20 African countries and more than 80 internationally renowned enterprises and institutions have applied for membership.
