Kenyan county connects to China through art - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
A memorandum of understanding has been signed between Kiraitu Murungi, the governor of Kenya's Meru county, and Duan Hongliang, the director of the Africa China Culture and Art Gallery, aimed at empowering artists in the region to improve their skills and get better visibility for their art.
During the signing ceremony held at county headquarters on Monday, Murungi said the partnership will see accomplished artists train budding talent in Meru county and offer them avenues to display their work nationally and internationally. A delegation from China virtually attended the ceremony.
"We have entered into a cultural cooperation with the Africa China Culture and Art Gallery led by director Duan Hongliang through an MoU, which will see our artists showcase their various talents, which include music, film and photography, carving, painting, drawing and fashion and design," Murungi said.
"We want to see art and culture as a business. We want our people to earn money out of art and our culture. We want art to be a source of employment, job creation and cash generation for our youth," Murungi added.
After taking a tour of some art pieces on display at the event, Duan said he was impressed by the array of items showcased at county headquarters and pledged to work with the county government to provide platforms for the artists' exposure.
"We need to express our beautiful cultures and our friendship through art. I am happy for this collaboration and I pledge that I will do the best I can to ensure that your art is exposed to both China and the rest of the world," Duan said.
According to Murungi, there will be five studios set up within Meru county where the artists can nurture and grow their talent for free. He also added that through the MoU they will set up a Meru Cultural Center at the traditional Njuri Ncheke shrine.
"We want to make Meru county a hub for talents and also attract cooperation and tourists from all over the globe. We are grateful to the Africa China Culture and Art Gallery, and I believe this collaboration will not only come with resources but also a source for markets for our artists," Murungi said.
