Agricultural research and extension investment key for Africa - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
For agriculture to meaningfully contribute to attainment of the aspirations enshrined in Agenda 2063, there is a need for African countries to increase investments in research and development, as well as extension systems, experts say.
Such investments would ensure transformed and modernized agriculture, consequently achieving inclusive growth and sustainable development on the continent.
Brian Cheboi, farm manager at Integrated Crop Management Solutions, a Kenyan-based agricultural research and consultancy firm, agreed that investing in agricultural research and extension is key for Africa to unlock its agricultural potential.
Cheboi said through research, quality seeds suitable for the continent’s climatic conditions will be produced, consequently increasing yields.
"Through research, farmers will get advice on how to control pests and disease challenges, as well as acquire more ideas and skills on new farming techniques and value addition," he said
Cheboi said agricultural extension provides critical support services for rural farmers to overcome the new challenges confronting their production.
According to the World Economic Forum, Africa holds about half of the world’s fertile and unused land, yet it spends $25 billion annually to import food.
Sikhumbuzo Zondi, a research assistant at the Institute for Global Dialogue associated with the University of South Africa, said most African countries are underinvesting in agricultural research and development, and have limited human resource capacity.
"Investments in agricultural research need to be significantly increased, along with the effective utilization of such resources to ensure food sustainability and the growth of Africa’s agricultural research output,” he said.
He said lesser attention to agricultural research and development in Africa has resulted in a huge domestic resource gap in generating agricultural investments, which in turn weakens the continent's target of reducing the number of under-nourished people by 2030.
Additionally, low investment in agriculture has generated weak organization and management of African agricultural institutions and organizations, culminating in their weak capacity.
"A blend of marginal investment and limited capacity thus hinders their ability to generate the technological innovations needed for agricultural productivity growth," Zondi said.
With the help of development partners, he said, continental leaders should reformulate, reconsider and effectively implement their agricultural development strategies.
Strategies include: Putting greater emphasis on macroeconomic and sectoral incentives; strengthening institutional capabilities; raising and sustaining productivity and competitiveness; diversifying production and trade; and improving access to foreign markets.
Zondi expressed the need for collective effort and synergies of a diverse, multi-agency system in which the private sector, farmer organizations, cooperatives, non-governmental organizations and para-professionals will each contribute according to its own strength and capabilities.
This is in addition to small agribusinesses, self-help groups, input dealers and suppliers, electronic and print media and information technology.
He called on African countries to strengthen collaborative agricultural research and extension development.
"The African Union should consider establishing a continental agricultural research and development facility which will lobby foreign investment on behalf of African farmers and producers, and also assist in exploiting and enhancing Africa’s sustainable agricultural potential," he said.
He said Zimbabwe, Kenya, Cote d’Ivoire and Mali have increased agricultural productivity, specifically in maize production, horticulture, cocoa and rice, respectively.
Similarly, South Africa has invested in innovative mechanisms for extension and research systems, such as accelerating partnerships between the public and the private sector, including a portion of civil society.
John Kibet, food technologist at the University of Kabianga, said rapid agricultural growth occurs when the bulk of small-scale commercial farmers and large scale farmers apply a steady stream of science-based innovations.
"Profitable science-oriented innovations are largely generated in public agricultural research institutions and their public sector extension programs connect farmers with the research results, solving some of the major agricultural challenges," he said.
Kibet said Africa is yet to unlock its agricultural potential due to a lack of new farming practices, technological advancement for production and investment in value addition.
He said Ethiopia has done a commendable job by investing heavily in reforms to employ professionalism and adequate budget allocations to meet changing consumption patterns, technological progress and increased technical skills.
