Somalia and China celebrate 60 years of diplomatic relations in Mogadishu - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Somalia and the Chinese Embassy in Somalia on Monday co-organized a reception in Mogadishu to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Somalia. The event also featured a photo exhibition, which was in part contributed by Xinhua News Agency, and organized by the center for East African studies at Zhejiang normal university's Institute of African Studies. The exhibition displayed 87 photographs illustrating the historical friendly relations between the two countries.
The occasion attracted more than 200 people, including the deputy minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development, the minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, the minister of Public Works, the minister of Ports and Maritime Transport, the minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, the deputy governor of Mogadishu city and Banadir Regional Administration, along with a number of deputy ministers, and state ministers from different federal ministries. Also present at the event were members of Parliament, and representatives from the Banadir Regional Administration, as well as ambassadors, distinguished members from the diplomatic corps and representatives from different international missions in Somalia. It is worth noting that members from civil society organizations, business associations, and former students in China also were present during this historic event.
During the event, the Deputy Mayor of Mogadishu Ali Abdi Wardhere gave the opening remarks on behalf of the mayor of Mogadishu.
Ali Abdi praised the organization of the photo exhibition and welcomed guests. In his address, he gave special emphasis to the historical ties between Mogadishu city and China, illustrated in historic visits, from Zheng He to Mogadishu, and the visits of Said from Mogadishu to China in the 15th century.
Ali Abdi also said there are numerous prospects for deepening bilateral cooperation between the two countries, building on the friendly ties dating back to the medieval era.
In his address, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Mohamud Abdullahi Siraji stressed the significance of the mutual friendship between the two nations and its historical origins. "We hold our friendship with China in high regard and remain thankful for the relentless support you have for our nation," he said. At the same time, Mohamud Abdullahi expressed Somalia's appreciation for "the solidarity shown by our Chinese friends even in the midst of difficult times of COVID-19. "We are especially thankful for China's swift response during the COVID-19 pandemic - sending Somalia three planes full of necessary PPE equipment to fight and contain the disease."
Minister for Information, Culture and Tourism Osman Abukar Dubbe, who also spoke at the event, underlined that his government is looking forward to strengthening cooperation with the People's Republic of China in different fields to bring more prosperity to the people of both countries.
"On the 14th of December 1960, Somalia became the first country in East Africa to establish diplomatic ties with the People's Republic of China. Today, as we gather here to commemorate the 60th anniversary of this moment in the history of our two brotherly nations, it is even more significant to note how consistent this relationship has been throughout the years," he said.
For his part, the ambassador of the People's Republic of China to Somalia, Qin Jian, recalled the long-standing brotherly relations between the two countries in the fields of politics, economy, education, culture, health and people to people exchanges in the past 60 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, and highlighted the crucial role Somalia played in the restoration of China's legitimate seat at the United Nations.
"China and Somalia have always trusted each other politically and treated each other equally. Somalia firmly supported China's restoration of its legitimate seat in the United Nations in 1971, and has long adhered to the one-China principle. At the same time, China firmly supports the political independence of Somalia and respects its sovereignty and territorial integrity," Qin said.
Similarly, the ambassador underscored the importance of strengthening the political exchanges and mutual trust, and economic and trade cooperation as well as people to people exchanges between the two countries. He pledged that his government will continue to provide scholarship opportunities to Somali students and contribute to the realization of Somalia's development aspirations.
During the event, Mohamud Abdullahi Siraji and Qin delivered congratulatory messages from their respective presidents to commemorate this momentous occasion. Qin also read a congratulatory message from Wang Yi, State Councilor and China's Foreign Minister.
Professor Liu Hong Wu, Changjiang scholar and director of the Institute of African Studies at Zhejiang Normal University, gave a brief presentation regarding the historic and present ties between Somalia and China, mentioning Somalia's strategic importance to the ancient Maritime Silk Road, and the significance of future trade and cultural exchange between Somalia and China on the new Belt and Road Initiative.
At the same time, a presentation was made by Abdirahman Mohamud Abdulkadir, senior researcher at the Somali Academy of Science and Arts, in which he covered the historic cultural relations between the two countries that continue to exist to this day.
Throughout the event, the national anthems of the two countries were played and rich cultural displays were presented. The Popular Somali folk troupe Waaberi performed Somali cultural dances, which garnered standing ovations from the crowd. Officials from the government, members of the diplomatic community and other guests viewed the photo exhibition and Chinese and Somali cultural displays, and praised the commemoration event marking the 60th anniversary of the establishment of Somalia-China diplomatic relations.
