President highlights links to Indonesia, Morocco - Chinadaily.com.cn
China stands ready to work with Indonesia to uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core, advance the improvement of global governance, safeguard international fairness and justice and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, President Xi Jinping said on Monday.
Xi made the remark in a telephone conversation with Indonesian President Joko Widodo. Also on Monday evening, Xi spoke by telephone with Morocco's King Mohammed VI.
While speaking with Widodo, Xi mentioned the two countries' consistent efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and said China supports enterprises from both countries in developing cooperation in vaccine research and development, purchasing and production, and jointly contributing to making the vaccine accessible and affordable.
Xi told Widodo that China will continue to deepen reform and comprehensively expand high-level opening-up as well as advance the new development pattern with domestic and international markets complementing each other so as to provide more extensive market opportunities for other countries.
China stands ready to advance Belt and Road cooperation with Indonesia, he said, calling on the two countries to work together in new fields to boost development and inject momentum into the regional and the world economies.
Widodo thanked China for its support in fighting COVID-19, and said Indonesia stands ready to work with China to uphold the basic norms of the international system and peace and stability in the region, and to advance the building of the community with a shared future for mankind.
In his conversation with King Mohammed VI, Xi said that China is willing to actively push forward cooperation on vaccine research and development as well as production with the African country.
He called on the two countries to join hands with other nations in upholding multilateralism, supporting the leading role of the World Health Organization and jointly safeguarding the lives and health of people of all countries.
Stating that China encouraged its capable companies to invest in Morocco, Xi said that China is willing to steadily advance cooperation with Morocco in promoting cooperation in various areas including the Belt and Road Initiative and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation.
King Mohammed VI said his country will consider China as a priority for cooperation and that he hopes that the two nations will deepen cooperation in such areas as trade and the economy as well as science and technology so as to enrich the vigor of bilateral ties.
