Kenyans run to eliminate maternal, infant deaths - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Thousands of Kenyans, including Deputy President Willian Ruto, and dozens of foreigners on Sunday participated in the fourth Beyond Zero Half Marathon, an annual event that seeks to raise funds to eliminate preventable maternal and infant deaths.
The race that was flagged off and ended at Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi featured four races: a 2-kilometer walk for pregnant women; 5 km family fun race, wheelchair and tricycle races; 10 km road race; and 21 km half marathon.
Margaret Kenyatta, the first lady of Kenya who is also the champion of the Beyond Zero initiative, participated in the 10 kilometer race accompanied by Roman Tesfaye, the former first lady of Ethiopia, and crossed the finish line in an hour and 50 minutes.
Launched in 2014 by Kenyatta, Beyond Zero is a charitable organization inspired by the realization and knowledge that maternal and children deaths are preventable.
The initiative is a call to action for policy prioritization and formulation, increased resource allocation, improved service delivery and better individual health-seeking behaviors and practices.
Speaking after the races, Uhuru Kenyatta, the president of Kenya, said the Beyond Zero initiative has gone a long way in supporting the national programs.
"I'm certain that Beyond Zero and many other initiatives across the country will help us to achieve our dream of a united and prosperous nation," Kenyatta said.
The president promised to participate in the next edition of the marathon, either in the 5 or 10 km race.
William Ruto, the deputy president of Kenya, congratulated Margaret Kenyatta for her efforts to ensure that pregnant mothers and children can access healthcare through the Beyond Zero initiative.
Hailemariam Desalegn, the former prime minister of Ethiopia, said, "Life starts with mothers, while the children are the future. I therefore thank the Kenyan first lady for supporting their healthcare," he said.
Margaret Kenyatta said the initiative has prevented the deaths of mothers and babies who had lacked access to healthcare and medicines.
It also has contributed to widespread awareness about the health challenges facing women, children and vulnerable communities.
"We purchased and delivered mobile clinics to all the 47 counties. We have also began medical safaris to address specific health concerns," she said.
Margaret Kenyatta said this year's Beyond Zero Marathon is dedicated to women living with obstetric fistula, to advocate for policy protection and bring hope that will change their lives.
It's also dedicated to babies and children living with intellectual challenges as well as advocating for inclusion and equal access to all services.
"We also dedicate it to the senior citizens for their love and sacrifice to make Kenya what it is today. We advocate for their recognition and social protection," Margaret said.
She thanked the participants, volunteers and sponsors.
"I'm proud of the new race category, the Paralympic team. You have used this marathon as a springboard pre-qualifier race to the international games next year," she said.
Sicily Kariuki, the Cabinet secretary for health, said the ministry has witnessed exponential growth in integrated health services such as HIV testing, treatment and care, immunization and basic treatment of all common ailments as a result of the Beyond Zero initiative.
John Chirchir, the regional marketing manager for Middle East, Asia and Pacific at the Kenya Tourism Board, and who participated in the 5-km race, said Beyond Zero is brilliant and innovative because it supports the grassroots, and most of the beneficiaries are people without sustainable income.
"By pregnant women participating in the race, it's an indication that the initiative is working," he said. "It's wonderful to see several foreigners supporting the initiative. We can learn from what they are doing in their home countries while others can learn from us and take it back home as best practices towards universal healthcare."
"It's important that the healthcare is expanded into rural areas where there is a big need for more maternal and child healthcare," said Rene Bullock, a US citizen who participated in the 5-km race. "In the US, we have similar events meant to raise funds to address cancer and mental health issues, and I have participated in several."
Tang Ying, director, China Daily Africa participated in the 10-km race and finished in 1 hour, 38 minutes.
"This welfare activity is good for the Kenyan people and my health. I am glad that I had an opportunity to participate in it," she said.
The first three participants to cross the finish line in the half marathon (21 km) were awarded Ksh250, 000 ($2,500), Ksh125, 000 ($1,250) and Ksh75, 000 (750), respectively.
The 10-km race top three finishers were awarded Ksh100, 000 ($1,000), Ksh60, 000 ($600) and Ksh40, 000 ($400), respectively.
Contact the writer at&nbsp;edithmutethya@chinadaily.com.cn
