Kenyans working for Chinese businesses embark on trip to China - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The first group of 55 outstanding employees from Kenya China Economic Trade Association member companies awarded trophies and certificates in December, left for an 8-day, fully paid trip to China on Monday.
The 28 employees will travel to Shanghai, the largest city and Beijing, the capital. The second batch of 27 employees will leave for China on April 15.
The employees represent 24 counties, including Kisii, Siaya, Nairobi, Kilifi, Busia, Taita Taveta, Machakos, Kitui and Meru, were selected last year to mark the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kenya and China.
Apart from visiting some tourist hotspots, they also will visit some major Chinese companies, including China Road and Bridge Corporation and Huawei Technologies, who represent China's strengths in manufacturing and high-tech.
Speaking during the send-off ceremony on Monday, Guo Ce, the economic and commercial counselor at the Chinese embassy in Kenya, said the employees will have an opportunity to acquire a deeper understanding of China, its people and culture, which will be helpful in their work.
"It's the spring season in China now, and spring is a season of rebirth and renewal. There is a Chinese saying that goes, 'The whole year's work depends on good planning in spring'. I hope this trip is a fresh new start for the employees," he said.
Li Changgui, the trade association's chairman, said he hoped that the employees' experiences in China will enable more Kenyans to understand China better and further enhance the friendship between people from the two countries.
"I believe this trip to China will bring you surprises and unforgettable memories. I hope that you will make persistent efforts to make new and greater contributions to the deepening of China-Kenya economic and trade cooperation," said Li, who also is general manager of the China Road and Bridge Corporation in Kenya.
Li said under the joint efforts of local and Chinese employees, a series of impressive achievements had been realized and several large-scale flagship projects had been constructed.
Stephen Syengo, one of the trip beneficiaries who is working for the China Road and Bridge Corporation, said he was happy for the opportunity to visit China.
