China awards prestigious honor to former Tanzania PM - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
Africa is honored, but not surprised, that China has awarded its highest state honor to former Tanzania Prime Minister Salim Ahmed Salim, according to commentators on the continent.
The move further reiterates China's deep-seated value of remembering its old friends, said experts.
China has announced that it will bestow the Friendship Medal to the 77 year-old former premier.
It is the highest award for foreigners who have made outstanding contributions to China's economic and social progress, and Salim is to be among 42 bestowed with the national medals.
Jenerali Ulimwengu, a political analyst based in the commercial city of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, said the award honors the former premier's outstanding contributions in promoting collaboration and respect between China and the world while he was serving as Tanzania's permanent representative to the UN.
"It is a deserving recognition of one of Tanzania's outstanding diplomats. He was instrumental in championing the cause of China especially in its admission into the UN in 1971," said Ulimwengu.
Then, only 28 years old, Dr. Salim waged a campaign to have China admitted to the assembly of nations.
Despite being one of the youngest diplomats assigned to the UN, he brought together African members to vote for a common cause.
"He was a fine diplomat, with deft skills that pulled together both English- and French-speaking African countries. This is usually not easy, but it indicates the passion and deep belief he had that the UN could not have global legitimacy without China, a country with close to 1billion people at the time," said Ulimwengu.
Dr. Salim went to be elected three times to head the Organization of African Union, the predecessor of the African Union.
The continent continues to recognize him as one of its greatest sons and it is a great honor for China to recognize him too, said Ulimwengu.
The medal also signifies the strengthening Sino-Tanzania relationship that started with the construction of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway.
Despite being a poor country then, China funded the construction of the railway, giving Zambia a lease of life after routes to South Africa and Angola became impossible.
"The China-Africa relationship has historical linkages, and this award is a testimony that it continues to be the basis of future endeavors," he said.
The Tanzania government has said that it will ensure the award reaches Dr. Salim on time.
