Good friends 'head in the same direction' - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
<strong>China can share the fruits of innovative development with Africa and countries around the world, senior publicity official says</strong>
Discussing the important outcomes of the 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and deepening the consensus on how to enhance China-Africa cooperation are of great significance, a senior publicity official said on Thursday.
Guo Weimin, vice-minister of the State Council Information Office, made the remark at the fourth Vision China event - themed "China&amp; Africa: Growing Together" - on Thursday night in Beijing.
Vision China is a series of talks on China-related issues organized by China Daily with the goal of sharing new thinking in the new era.
The event on Thursday was held at the Beijing Language and Culture University, just two days after the FOCAC summit concluded.
On Monday, President Xi Jinping highlighted the building of a China-Africa community with a shared future in his speech at the opening ceremony of the summit.
"President Xi Jinping delivered the important keynote speech, in which he profoundly stated China's genuine and sincere ideas toward Africa as well as the correct nature of the country's interest in strengthening the relationship between China and Africa," Guo said.
The speech attracted great interest and resonated with African countries and the international community, he said, adding that thanks to the summit, the foundations for sincere mutual trust between China and Africa will be more solid.
"In the future, China and Africa will continue to head in the same direction and look out for each other," Guo said. "China will always be Africa's good friend, good partner, and good brother."
This year marks the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up. Under Xi's leadership, Guo said, China will firmly implement people-centered development and new development concepts, as well as deepen all-around reforms.
This means that, in addition to benefiting the Chinese people, the country can better share the fruits of innovative development with people in Africa and worldwide, he said.
China will also continue to stand against trade protectionism and unilateralism, so that more opportunities can be brought to countries in Africa and around the world, Guo said.
"We will stand firmly with African countries to build a closer China-Africa community with a shared future," he said. "It will be a good example for building a community with a shared future for mankind."
Guo said he hopes that people will pass on the vivid stories of friendship between Chinese and African people that they have witnessed or heard to friends and media in their home countries, so they could also see the bright prospects of China-Africa cooperation.
The State Council Information Office is willing to actively create better conditions for boosting exchanges and cooperation between Chinese and African media and people, he added.
