African leaders say political parties can learn from CPC - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
As the two-day conference between Communist Party of China (CPC) and African political parties came to an end on July 18 in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, it was resolved that African political parties should work together with CPC in efforts to build a community with a shared future for the two parties.
It was agreed that the CPC and African political parties must set a shining example of new type of party-to-party relationships through enhanced mutual learning.
Over 40 political parties from 36 African countries attending the event agreed that political stability is key for economic growth of any country. They thus resolved to borrow a leaf from CPC in building their parties and working toward economic growth of their respective countries.
According to Tanzanian President John Magufuli, political parties play a critical role in the economic development of any country.
"Political parties are the voices of the citizens. I'm grateful to CPC for establishing a dialogue with political parties and I'm confident that through the dialogues, Africa will be able to attain peace, security and economic growth," he said.
This was echoed by Kebby Mbewe, the chairperson of the committee of physical health development of the central committee of Zambia's Patriotic Front, who said political stability attracts foreign investments, which in turn helps the economy.
Mbewe said the decisions taken by CPC leadership in reforming China are learning points for Africa. "By overcoming challenges which are similar to what Africa faces, the Asian country offers itself as an open inspiration for Africa and a case study requiring further analysis and learning," he said.
Franklin Mwendani, Kenya's Jubilee Party coordinator in Meru county, said when a ruling party is strong, it has a stabilizing effect in the country.
"When political games are played and concluded within the parameters of a stable political party, the rest of the populace can be spared from the drama and trauma of political conflicts," he said. "However, when the parties are weak as it is the case within the African context, invariably, the political organizing principle changes to tribal mobilization."
Mwendani said it's only through having sustained political stability environment that African countries will benefit from the Belt and the Road Initiative (BRI) projects.
"Countries experiencing political turmoil where rebel movements roam the hinterland invariably have bridges blown up with explosives. In such circumstances, it's sensible to strengthen political instruments that can guarantee stability instead of building roads," he said.
Sophia Shaningwa, the secretary general of Namibia's Swapo Party, said the strides made by China and CPC, especially in party building and state governance, are commendable.
She said CPC has identified and addressed fight against corruption, dishonesty and unnecessary bureaucracy, as well as enhancing discipline and supervision among cadres.
"We should follow the path whereby everyone owns equally the factors of production, namely labour, entrepreneurship, capital goods, and natural resources," she said.
Shaningwa said political parties should act as catalysts in establishing and strengthening the bilateral relations between their respective countries and China.
In addition, Africa's political parties should work hard on maintaining the disciplines of cadres within the party, without which the party may not realize prosperity.
"A lot of empty promises can harm both the party and the country. African political parties should therefore implement the ideas learned from CPC for the benefit of their citizens," she said.
Kitila Mkumbo, secretary general, Tanzania's Chama Cha Mapinduzi, said African political parties should continue the revolutionary struggle toward economic liberation and modernity, as well as cultural liberation, independence and emancipation.
"This is where we need to learn from our CPC friends. The guiding question in this regard should be: how has the CPC withstood the test of time in a way that it continues being relevant and responsive to globalism without abandoning its ideological base and basic principles of operation?" Mkumbo said.
Mohamed Yusuf, deputy minister of foreign affairs of Sudan's National Congress Party (NCP), said CPC's long experience in formulating sound policies to handle peace, development, poverty, unemployment, fair trade, global political and justice governance can benefit African political parties.
