Chinese business community in Kenya donates to flood victims - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
As torrential rains continue to pound most areas within Kenya amid flooding that has caused death and destruction, the Chinese business community under Kenya China Economic and Trade Association (KCETA) and with support from the Chinese embassy in Kenya, has donated relief supplies of food and household necessities valued at more than $30,000 to West Pokot County which is worst hit by the ongoing floods.
In a ceremony held at the China Embassy in Kenya's capital Nairobi, and that was attended by Wu Peng, the Chinese ambassador to Kenya and John Lonyangapuo, West Pokot County governor, KCETA handed over supplies that include thousands of blankets, mattresses, and cooking materials.
Wu Peng said that the Chinese President Xi Jinping had sent a message of condolence to Kenya president Uhuru Kenyatta following the deaths caused by heavy rain and resultant landslides.
"President Xi said he was shocked to hear about the landslide disaster in West Pokot County which has caused heavy casualties," Wu said. "President Xi expressed his deepest sympathies to the injured, displaced and bereaved families."
The ambassador said that the Chinese government through Red Cross China has provided humanitarian donations to help those devastated by the floods.
"Today's donation by KCETA to West Pokot County conveys a clear message that the Chinese community in Kenya is determined and ready to stand alongside Kenyan people through tough times," Wu said.
Speaking at the ceremony, Li Changgui, chairman of KCETA said, "After a disaster like the recent floods, our priority is to help children and families who have lost their homes and are living in evacuation centers or with other families in their communities. Our Chinese construction companies working near the stricken areas have voluntarily worked non-stop for several days to help clear the blocked roads so that emergency supplies can be delivered to help those in the areas of West Pokot affected by landslides. This has helped emergency services to respond quickly and help meet people's immediate needs."
While expressing his gratitude for the donations, West Pokot County Governor John Lonyangapuo, thanked the Chinese business community for being among the first responders to the disaster when they used their machinery to clear blocked roads and make it easy for aid to reach the affected areas.
"I want to appreciate that I personally received on behalf of the West Pokot people your initial donation that came at a time we were in dire need of a friend to stand with us," he said. "This is a clear indication that the cooperation between Kenya and China is a fruitful one and has benefits for our people."
Record rainfall has fallen across Africa. ReliefWeb, a leading humanitarian information source on global crises and disasters, said that more than 1,200 deaths have occurred as a direct result of floods, landslides and cyclones in east and southern Africa.
In his latest update on Tuesday, Kenya government spokesman Cyrus Oguna revealed that the death toll following flooding in several parts of the country has reached 132 while approximately 330,000 people have been affected by the floods with 17,000 being displaced.
<em>Otiato Opali in Nairobi contributed to this story.</em>
