More African youth honored in tech challenge - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
The fifth Africa Tech Challenge (ATC) came to a close on Thursday in a colorful ceremony, where technical students from different colleges in Africa were acknowledged with certificates, cash prizes and scholarships.
Three students clinched the coveted prize of scholarships to China: William Mutuku, the winner in the mechatronics category, and Kennedy Kiptoo and Jonathan Kiplagat, the respective winner and runner-up in the lathe category.
Speaking at the award ceremony to celebrate the winners, AVIC International Holding Corporation Vice-President of International Affairs Jin Shaohua noted that the challenge had indeed achieved real impact in the lives of the participating African youth.
"As AVIC International, we are proud to note that this new cohort of winners, in the fifth challenge, will join the winners from the past four competitions in working with some of the best master craftsmen and engineers that the world has to offer and learn just what has made us one of the largest, most reputable and most efficient firms in the world," he said.
Betty Maina, the principal secretary in the ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, State Department of Investment and Industry, highlighted the importance of partnerships in fostering Kenya's industrialization push.
"The government's continued partnership in this program is informed by Kenya's Vision 2030 goal of industrialization that will create employment and wealth for the country and the overall move by African leaders to start the march toward a seamless Pan-African free trade area. Programs such as these are a necessary part of the push to modernize our economies and maximize trade," she said.
Also present was Guo Ce, the economic and commercial counsellor at the Chinese embassy in Kenya, who said, "Besides supporting Kenya's infrastructure expansion, Chinese enterprises are promoting technological transfers to Kenyan staff, with ATC a good case in point.
Starting from Kenya, ATC is extending to other African countries, offering job opportunities and scholarships to prize winners. This is a pragmatist approach toward Africa's human resource development, enhancing the Kenyan and African manufacturing industry, and teaching Africa to fish instead of giving fish."
The Africa Tech Challenge is a youth empowerment project, which focuses on skills development and empowering youth from various African states with much needed practical skills.
