China backs Africa in fighting against terrorism - World - Chinadaily.com.cn
China attaches great importance to the concerns of Africa and stands behind the continent's countries and regional organizations in their efforts to combat terrorism and violent extremism.
"China is ready, along with the rest of the international community, to support and assist African countries in combating terrorism and extremism, and continue our contributions to peace, stability and development in Africa," Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, said on Wednesday at a Security Council open debate.
The debate on Countering terrorism and extremism in Africa was convened by China, which is presiding over the Security Council in March.
Zhang said that as the continent with the greatest development potential, Africa suffers enormously from terrorism and violent extremism and is becoming the front line in the global fight against terrorism.
Terrorist organizations taking advantage of instability in some parts of Africa have been infiltrating into and spreading across the continent, disrupting regional stability and socioeconomic development, and undermining world peace and security at large.
Zhang told the meeting that through the China-UN Peace and Development Fund, China has provided financial support for UN counterterrorism training programs in Africa.
During the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, China established the China-Africa Peace and Security Forum and China-Africa Peace and Security Cooperation Fund.
China has provided through the African Union 300 million yuan of assistance to counterterrorism operations in the Sahel region and the development of the G5 Sahel Joint Force.
<strong>Support for development</strong>
Zhang also called for the international community to take "swift, effective and coordinated" actions to help put African countries in a better position to address terrorist threats with more capabilities, resources and means to eradicate the breeding ground of terrorism once and for all, and to combat terrorism and extremism in a comprehensive and integrated manner.
Zhang pointed out that underdevelopment in the socio-economic sphere is a major driver for the breeding and spread of terrorism and extremism in some parts of Africa.
"It is incumbent upon the international community to help African countries continue to implement the AU Agenda 2063 and the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to achieve lasting peace and stability through economic development, poverty eradication and improvement of the people's livelihoods," he said.
Zhang told the meeting that during the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China Africa Cooperation in 2018, China launched eight major initiatives, many of which are designed to provide African youth with assistance and training, so that they are better educated and more employable.
