就地过年：此心安处是吾乡 - 中国日报网

"+attrObj+"
春节，是中华民族最隆重盛大的传统节日。每年，远游的儿女们为了和家人们相聚吃一顿团圆饭，道一句新年快乐，千里迢迢踏上返乡的旅途。然而，受疫情的影响，今年春节却有千千万万人选择了“留下”。
The grandeur of the Spring Festival is unparalleled. Every year, the traditional festival marks the joy of homecoming. Migrants in cities flock home to get together with their families for long-awaited reunions and to wish each other the beginning of a new year. This year, the pandemic has put a dampener on celebrations as tens of thousands of people have chosen to stay put this Spring Festival and would be spending the holidays away from the warmth of home and families.
往年，春节前最紧张的时刻就是春运，人潮涌动的候车室，千姿百态的众生像，但今年春运预计客流量将大幅度下降。临近春节，中国一些地方出现零星散点病例，全国多省市发起“就地过年”的倡议，各地政府、企业也推出一系列周到而务实的举措，希望大家不返乡、少流动，就地过一个平安年。
During the Spring Festival, commuting used to become a harrowing experience for many with waiting rooms overcrowded as people jostled to make their way home. This year, however, a drop in passenger flow is expected. Sporadic cases are still appearing in some parts of China. Many provinces and cities across the country are encouraging people to stay where they are, asking them to celebrate the Chinese new year locally. Local governments and enterprises have also launched a series of thoughtful and pragmatic measures, boosting the chances that people will travel less and spend a safe new year locally.
甘肃兰州为暂不能返家的困难群众提供庇护场所；北京推出牛年特色大展，丰富大家文化生活；世界小商品之都义乌，有着几十个国家和地区的店家，为鼓励大家就地过年，送现金红包、给住房补贴、免景点门票，还有给外籍友人的中英双语服务热线……一项项贴心的实惠政策，彰显着一座座城市的精神高度和文化温度。
Lanzhou, Gansu Province is providing shelter for those living in poverty who can't return home for the time being; Beijing has launched the Year of the Ox exhibition to give the holidays a cultural shot in the arm; Yiwu, which sells small commodities and has stores in dozens of countries and regions, is encouraging people to celebrate the new year without travel by offering cash, red envelopes, housing subsidies, free tickets for scenic spots and a bilingual service hotline to connect with international friends……The thoughtful and affordable giveaways are meant to highlight the spiritual depth and cultural temperament of cities.
春节，是中国人骨子里的情结，贴春联，剪窗花，包饺子，年夜饭，压岁钱，看春晚等诸多新旧习俗，强调的就是喜庆祥和、阖家团圆。而今年，人们选择了“云”聚餐、“云”拜年、“云”红包的形式，过一个不一样的中国年。这次，也许没有一桌子的山珍海味，也没有亲朋好友觥筹交错，那就自己动手做几个简单的家乡菜，短暂的“不团圆”，是为了很快能更好地团圆。疫情阻挡了回家的脚步，但战胜疫情的心是坚定的。
The Spring Festival is a soulful experience for the Chinese people. Many old and new customs, such as pasting Spring Festival couplets, cutting window flowers, making dumplings, new year Eve’s dinner, lucky money, watching the Spring Festival Gala etc emphasize happiness, peace and family reunion. And this year, people choose to connect over cloud. There were "cloud" dinners, "cloud" new year celebrations and "cloud" red envelopes. While there may be no guests sitting at a table full of delicacies this year, the new year is likely to bring good tidings. Meanwhile, we can enjoy the festival with some simple homemade dishes. The pandemic blocks the way home, but all remain confident in defeating the virus.
在这个特殊年中，还有一批更伟大的无名英雄，那就是坚守一线的劳动者们。社区基层的志愿者，是遏制疫情的第一道防线；驰骋马路的外卖小哥，是保障居民生活的先锋队；医生、护士、军人……每一位春节在岗人员，都是城市运行中不可或缺的中坚力量。
In this special year, we must pay our tributes to unsung heroes — the workers who are sticking to the forefront positions to help us battle the pandemic. Volunteers at the grassroots level in the communities are the first line of defense to contain the pandemic; food delivery boys galloping on the road are the vanguard to protect the lives of residents; doctors, nurses, soldiers are helping us survive the crisis. Every person on duty during the Spring Festival is part of the backbone of the city.
哪有什么岁月静好，只不过是有人为你负重前行，舍小家为大家。家，是方向，是力量，是凝聚在心底的那份温暖。今年，无论我们身处何地，心安之处便是家，吾家便是故乡。
There is no peace for granted. It's just that some carry the heavy burden for you and give up their own families. Home is the direction, the strength, and the warmth deep in everone’s heart. This year, we should bring the warmth of home wherever we are.
策划：佟明月       后期：佟明月

              
                专题
              
            
